website/content/docs/job-specification/csi_plugin.mdx, before:

---
layout: docs
page_title: csi_plugin Block - Job Specification
description: >-
  The "csi_plugin" block allows the task to specify it provides a
  Container Storage Interface plugin to the cluster.
---

# `csi_plugin` Block

<Placement groups={['job', 'group', 'task', 'csi_plugin']} />

The "csi_plugin" block allows the task to specify it provides a
Container Storage Interface plugin to the cluster. Nomad will
automatically register the plugin so that it can be used by other jobs
to claim [volumes][csi_volumes].

```hcl
csi_plugin {
  id                     = "csi-hostpath"
  type                   = "monolith"
  mount_dir              = "/csi"
  stage_publish_base_dir = "/local/csi"
  health_timeout         = "30s"
}
```

## `csi_plugin` Parameters

- `id` `(string: <required>)` - This is the ID for the plugin. Some
  plugins will require both controller and node plugin types (see
  below); you need to use the same ID for both so that Nomad knows they
  belong to the same plugin.

- `type` `(string: <required>)` - One of `node`, `controller`, or
  `monolith`. Each plugin supports one or more types. Each Nomad
  client node where you want to mount a volume will need a `node`
  plugin instance. Some plugins will also require one or more
  `controller` plugin instances to communicate with the storage
  provider's APIs. Some plugins can serve as both `controller` and
  `node` at the same time, and these are called `monolith`
  plugins. Refer to your CSI plugin's documentation.

- `mount_dir` `(string: <optional>)` - The directory path inside the
  container where the plugin will expect a Unix domain socket for
  bidirectional communication with Nomad. This field is typically not
  required. Refer to your CSI plugin's documentation for details.

- `stage_publish_base_dir` `(string: <optional>)` - The base directory
  path inside the container where the plugin will be instructed to
  stage and publish volumes. This field is typically not required.
  Refer to your CSI plugin's documentation for details.

- `health_timeout` `(duration: <optional>)` - The duration that
  the plugin supervisor will wait before restarting an unhealthy
  CSI plugin. Must be a duration value such as `30s` or `2m`.
  Defaults to `30s` if not set.

~> **Note:** Plugins running as `node` or `monolith` require root
privileges (or `CAP_SYS_ADMIN` on Linux) to mount volumes on the
host. With the Docker task driver, you can use the `privileged = true`
configuration, but no other default task drivers currently have this
option.

## Recommendations for Deploying CSI Plugins

CSI plugins run as Nomad tasks, but after mounting the volume are not in the
data path for the volume. Tasks that mount volumes write and read directly to
the volume via a bind-mount and there is no communication between the job and
the CSI plugin. But when an allocation that mounts a volume stops, Nomad will
need to communicate with the plugin on that allocation's node to unmount the
volume. This has implications on how to deploy CSI plugins:

* If you are stopping jobs on a node, you must stop tasks that claim
  volumes before stopping the `node` or `monolith` plugin for those
  volumes. If you use the `node drain` feature, plugin tasks will
  automatically be drained last.

* Only the most recently-placed allocation for a given plugin ID and
  type (controller or node) will be used by any given client node. Run
  `node` plugins as system jobs and distribute `controller` plugins
  across client nodes using a constraint as shown below.

* Some plugins will create volumes only in the same location as the
  plugin. For example, the AWS EBS plugin will create and mount
  volumes only within the same Availability Zone. You should configure
  your plugin task as recommended by the plugin's documentation to use
  the [`topology_request`] field in your volume specification.

## `csi_plugin` Examples

```hcl
job "plugin-efs" {
  datacenters = ["dc1"]

  # you can run node plugins as service jobs as well, but running
  # as a system job ensures all nodes in the DC have a copy.
  type = "system"

  # only one plugin of a given type and ID should be deployed on
  # any given client node
  constraint {
    operator = "distinct_hosts"
    value = true
  }

  group "nodes" {
    task "plugin" {
      driver = "docker"

      config {
        image = "amazon/aws-efs-csi-driver:v.1.3.2"

        args = [
          "--endpoint=unix://csi/csi.sock",
          "--logtostderr",
          "--v=5",
        ]

        # all CSI node plugins will need to run as privileged tasks
        # so they can mount volumes to the host. controller plugins
        # do not need to be privileged.
        privileged = true
      }

      csi_plugin {
        id             = "aws-efs0"
        type           = "node"
        mount_dir      = "/csi"  # this path /csi matches the --endpoint
                            # argument for the container
        health_timeout = "30s"
      }
    }
  }
}
```

[csi]: https://github.com/container-storage-interface/spec
[csi_volumes]: /nomad/docs/job-specification/volume
[system]: /nomad/docs/schedulers#system
[`topology_request`]: /nomad/docs/commands/volume/create#topology_request

Commit message:

[CSI] Prevent stage_publish_base_dir from being subdir of mount_dir
Signed-off-by: Grant Griffiths <ggriffiths@purestorage.com>

website/content/docs/job-specification/csi_plugin.mdx, after:

---
layout: docs
page_title: csi_plugin Block - Job Specification
description: >-
  The "csi_plugin" block allows the task to specify it provides a
  Container Storage Interface plugin to the cluster.
---

# `csi_plugin` Block

<Placement groups={['job', 'group', 'task', 'csi_plugin']} />

The "csi_plugin" block allows the task to specify it provides a
Container Storage Interface plugin to the cluster. Nomad will
automatically register the plugin so that it can be used by other jobs
to claim [volumes][csi_volumes].

```hcl
csi_plugin {
  id                     = "csi-hostpath"
  type                   = "monolith"
  mount_dir              = "/csi"
  stage_publish_base_dir = "/local/csi"
  health_timeout         = "30s"
}
```

## `csi_plugin` Parameters

- `id` `(string: <required>)` - This is the ID for the plugin. Some
  plugins will require both controller and node plugin types (see
  below); you need to use the same ID for both so that Nomad knows they
  belong to the same plugin.

- `type` `(string: <required>)` - One of `node`, `controller`, or
  `monolith`. Each plugin supports one or more types. Each Nomad
  client node where you want to mount a volume will need a `node`
  plugin instance. Some plugins will also require one or more
  `controller` plugin instances to communicate with the storage
  provider's APIs. Some plugins can serve as both `controller` and
  `node` at the same time, and these are called `monolith`
  plugins. Refer to your CSI plugin's documentation.

- `mount_dir` `(string: <optional>)` - The directory path inside the
  container where the plugin will expect a Unix domain socket for
  bidirectional communication with Nomad. This field is typically not
  required. Refer to your CSI plugin's documentation for details.

- `stage_publish_base_dir` `(string: <optional>)` - The base directory
  path inside the container where the plugin will be instructed to
  stage and publish volumes. This field is typically not required.
  Refer to your CSI plugin's documentation for details. This can not
  be a subdirectory of mount_dir.

- `health_timeout` `(duration: <optional>)` - The duration that
  the plugin supervisor will wait before restarting an unhealthy
  CSI plugin. Must be a duration value such as `30s` or `2m`.
  Defaults to `30s` if not set.

~> **Note:** Plugins running as `node` or `monolith` require root
privileges (or `CAP_SYS_ADMIN` on Linux) to mount volumes on the
host. With the Docker task driver, you can use the `privileged = true`
configuration, but no other default task drivers currently have this
option.

## Recommendations for Deploying CSI Plugins

CSI plugins run as Nomad tasks, but after mounting the volume are not in the
data path for the volume. Tasks that mount volumes write and read directly to
the volume via a bind-mount and there is no communication between the job and
the CSI plugin. But when an allocation that mounts a volume stops, Nomad will
need to communicate with the plugin on that allocation's node to unmount the
volume. This has implications on how to deploy CSI plugins:

* If you are stopping jobs on a node, you must stop tasks that claim
  volumes before stopping the `node` or `monolith` plugin for those
  volumes. If you use the `node drain` feature, plugin tasks will
  automatically be drained last.

* Only the most recently-placed allocation for a given plugin ID and
  type (controller or node) will be used by any given client node. Run
  `node` plugins as system jobs and distribute `controller` plugins
  across client nodes using a constraint as shown below.

* Some plugins will create volumes only in the same location as the
  plugin. For example, the AWS EBS plugin will create and mount
  volumes only within the same Availability Zone. You should configure
  your plugin task as recommended by the plugin's documentation to use
  the [`topology_request`] field in your volume specification.

## `csi_plugin` Examples

```hcl
job "plugin-efs" {
  datacenters = ["dc1"]

  # you can run node plugins as service jobs as well, but running
  # as a system job ensures all nodes in the DC have a copy.
  type = "system"

  # only one plugin of a given type and ID should be deployed on
  # any given client node
  constraint {
    operator = "distinct_hosts"
    value = true
  }

  group "nodes" {
    task "plugin" {
      driver = "docker"

      config {
        image = "amazon/aws-efs-csi-driver:v.1.3.2"

        args = [
          "--endpoint=unix://csi/csi.sock",
          "--logtostderr",
          "--v=5",
        ]

        # all CSI node plugins will need to run as privileged tasks
        # so they can mount volumes to the host. controller plugins
        # do not need to be privileged.
        privileged = true
      }

      csi_plugin {
        id             = "aws-efs0"
        type           = "node"
        mount_dir      = "/csi"  # this path /csi matches the --endpoint
                            # argument for the container
        health_timeout = "30s"
      }
    }
  }
}
```

[csi]: https://github.com/container-storage-interface/spec
[csi_volumes]: /nomad/docs/job-specification/volume
[system]: /nomad/docs/schedulers#system
[`topology_request`]: /nomad/docs/commands/volume/create#topology_request
