website/content/docs/drivers/raw_exec.mdx, before:

---
layout: docs
page_title: 'Drivers: Raw Exec'
description: The Raw Exec task driver simply fork/execs and provides no isolation.
---

# Raw Fork/Exec Driver

Name: `raw_exec`

The `raw_exec` driver is used to execute a command for a task without any
isolation. Further, the task is started as the same user as the Nomad process.
As such, it should be used with extreme care and is disabled by default.

## Task Configuration

```hcl
task "webservice" {
  driver = "raw_exec"

  config {
    command = "my-binary"
    args    = ["-flag", "1"]
  }
}
```

The `raw_exec` driver supports the following configuration in the job spec:

- `command` - The command to execute. Must be provided. If executing a binary
  that exists on the host, the path must be absolute. If executing a binary that
  is downloaded from an [`artifact`](/nomad/docs/job-specification/artifact), the
  path can be relative from the allocation's root directory.

- `args` - (Optional) A list of arguments to the `command`. References
  to environment variables or any [interpretable Nomad
  variables](/nomad/docs/runtime/interpolation) will be interpreted before
  launching the task.

~> The `task.user` field cannot be set on a Task using the `raw_exec` driver if
the Nomad client has been hardened according to the [production][hardening] guide.

## Examples

To run a binary present on the Node:

```
task "example" {
  driver = "raw_exec"

  config {
    # When running a binary that exists on the host, the path must be absolute/
    command = "/bin/sleep"
    args    = ["1"]
  }
}
```

To execute a binary downloaded from an [`artifact`](/nomad/docs/job-specification/artifact):

```
task "example" {
  driver = "raw_exec"

  config {
    command = "name-of-my-binary"
  }

  artifact {
    source = "https://internal.file.server/name-of-my-binary"
    options {
      checksum = "sha256:abd123445ds4555555555"
    }
  }
}
```

## Capabilities

The `raw_exec` driver implements the following [capabilities](/nomad/docs/concepts/plugins/task-drivers#capabilities-capabilities-error).

| Feature              | Implementation |
| -------------------- | -------------- |
| `nomad alloc signal` | true           |
| `nomad alloc exec`   | true           |
| filesystem isolation | none           |
| network isolation    | host, group    |
| volume mounting      | none           |

## Client Requirements

The `raw_exec` driver can run on all supported operating systems. For security
reasons, it is disabled by default. To enable raw exec, the Nomad client
configuration must explicitly enable the `raw_exec` driver in the plugin's options:

```
plugin "raw_exec" {
  config {
    enabled = true
  }
}
```

Nomad versions before v0.9 use the following client configuration. This configuration is
also supported in Nomad v0.9.0, but is deprecated in favor of the plugin block:

```
client {
  options = {
    "driver.raw_exec.enable" = "1"
  }
}
```

## Plugin Options

- `enabled` - Specifies whether the driver should be enabled or disabled.
  Defaults to `false`.

## Client Options

~> Note: client configuration options will soon be deprecated. Please use
[plugin options][plugin-options] instead. See the [plugin block][plugin-block] documentation for more information.

- `driver.raw_exec.enable` - Specifies whether the driver should be enabled or
  disabled. Defaults to `false`.

## Client Attributes

The `raw_exec` driver will set the following client attributes:

- `driver.raw_exec` - This will be set to "1", indicating the driver is available.

## Resource Isolation

The `raw_exec` driver provides no filesystem isolation.

If the launched process creates a new process group, it is possible that
Nomad will leak processes on shutdown unless the application forwards signals
properly. Nomad will not leak any processes if cgroups are being used to
manage the process tree. Cgroups are used on Linux when Nomad is being run with
appropriate privileges, and the cgroup system is mounted.


[hardening]: /nomad/docs/install/production/requirements#user-permissions
[plugin-options]: #plugin-options
[plugin-block]: /nomad/docs/configuration/plugin

Commit message:

drivers/raw_exec: enable configuring raw_exec task to have no memory limit (#19670)
* drivers/raw_exec: enable configuring raw_exec task to have no memory limit

This PR makes it possible to configure a raw_exec task to not have an
upper memory limit, which is how the driver would behave pre-1.7.

This is done by setting memory_max = -1. The cluster (or node pool) must
have memory oversubscription enabled.

* cl: add cl

website/content/docs/drivers/raw_exec.mdx, after:

---
layout: docs
page_title: 'Drivers: Raw Exec'
description: The Raw Exec task driver simply fork/execs and provides no isolation.
---

# Raw Fork/Exec Driver

Name: `raw_exec`

The `raw_exec` driver is used to execute a command for a task without any
isolation. Further, the task is started as the same user as the Nomad process.
As such, it should be used with extreme care and is disabled by default.

## Task Configuration

```hcl
task "webservice" {
  driver = "raw_exec"

  config {
    command = "my-binary"
    args    = ["-flag", "1"]
  }
}
```

The `raw_exec` driver supports the following configuration in the job spec:

- `command` - The command to execute. Must be provided. If executing a binary
  that exists on the host, the path must be absolute. If executing a binary that
  is downloaded from an [`artifact`](/nomad/docs/job-specification/artifact), the
  path can be relative from the allocation's root directory.

- `args` - (Optional) A list of arguments to the `command`. References
  to environment variables or any [interpretable Nomad
  variables](/nomad/docs/runtime/interpolation) will be interpreted before
  launching the task.

~> The `task.user` field cannot be set on a Task using the `raw_exec` driver if
the Nomad client has been hardened according to the [production][hardening] guide.

## Examples

To run a binary present on the Node:

```
task "example" {
  driver = "raw_exec"

  config {
    # When running a binary that exists on the host, the path must be absolute/
    command = "/bin/sleep"
    args    = ["1"]
  }
}
```

To execute a binary downloaded from an [`artifact`](/nomad/docs/job-specification/artifact):

```
task "example" {
  driver = "raw_exec"

  config {
    command = "name-of-my-binary"
  }

  artifact {
    source = "https://internal.file.server/name-of-my-binary"
    options {
      checksum = "sha256:abd123445ds4555555555"
    }
  }
}
```

## Capabilities

The `raw_exec` driver implements the following [capabilities](/nomad/docs/concepts/plugins/task-drivers#capabilities-capabilities-error).

| Feature              | Implementation |
| -------------------- | -------------- |
| `nomad alloc signal` | true           |
| `nomad alloc exec`   | true           |
| filesystem isolation | none           |
| network isolation    | host, group    |
| volume mounting      | none           |

## Client Requirements

The `raw_exec` driver can run on all supported operating systems. For security
reasons, it is disabled by default. To enable raw exec, the Nomad client
configuration must explicitly enable the `raw_exec` driver in the plugin's options:

```
plugin "raw_exec" {
  config {
    enabled = true
  }
}
```

Nomad versions before v0.9 use the following client configuration. This configuration is
also supported in Nomad v0.9.0, but is deprecated in favor of the plugin block:

```
client {
  options = {
    "driver.raw_exec.enable" = "1"
  }
}
```

## Plugin Options

- `enabled` - Specifies whether the driver should be enabled or disabled.
  Defaults to `false`.

## Client Options

~> Note: client configuration options will soon be deprecated. Please use
[plugin options][plugin-options] instead. See the [plugin block][plugin-block] documentation for more information.

- `driver.raw_exec.enable` - Specifies whether the driver should be enabled or
  disabled. Defaults to `false`.

## Client Attributes

The `raw_exec` driver will set the following client attributes:

- `driver.raw_exec` - This will be set to "1", indicating the driver is available.

## Resource Isolation

The `raw_exec` driver provides no filesystem isolation.

If the launched process creates a new process group, it is possible that
Nomad will leak processes on shutdown unless the application forwards signals
properly. Nomad will not leak any processes if cgroups are being used to
manage the process tree. Cgroups are used on Linux when Nomad is being run with
appropriate privileges, and the cgroup system is mounted.

If the cluster is configured with memory oversubscription enabled, a task using
the `raw_exec` driver can be configured to have no maximum memory limit by 
setting `memory_max = -1`.

```hcl
resources {
  cpu        = 500
  memory     = 128
  memory_max = -1 # no limit
}
```


[hardening]: /nomad/docs/install/production/requirements#user-permissions
[plugin-options]: #plugin-options
[plugin-block]: /nomad/docs/configuration/plugin
