website/content/docs/other-specifications/volume/index.mdx, before:

---
layout: docs
page_title: Volume Specification
description: Learn about the Volume specification used to create and register volumes to Nomad.
---

# Volume Specification

The Nomad volume specification defines the schema for creating and registering
volumes using the [`volume create`] and [`volume register`] commands and the
[`PUT /v1/volume/csi/:volume_id/create`][api_volume_create] and [`PUT
/v1/volume/csi/:volume_id`][api_volume_register] API endpoints.

Some attributes are only be supported by specific operation, while others may
have a different meaning for each action, so read the documentation for each
attribute carefully. The section [Differences Between Create and
Register](#differences-between-create-and-register) provides a summary of the
differences.

The file may be provided as either HCL or JSON to the commands and as JSON to
the API. An example HCL configuration for a `volume create` command:

```hcl
id           = "ebs_prod_db1"
namespace    = "default"
name         = "database"
type         = "csi"
plugin_id    = "ebs-prod"
snapshot_id  = "snap-12345" # or clone_id, see below
capacity_max = "200G"
capacity_min = "100G"

capability {
  access_mode     = "single-node-reader-only"
  attachment_mode = "file-system"
}

capability {
  access_mode     = "single-node-writer"
  attachment_mode = "file-system"
}

mount_options {
  fs_type     = "ext4"
  mount_flags = ["noatime"]
}

topology_request {
  required {
    topology { segments { "rack" = "R2" } }
    topology { segments { "rack" = "R1", "zone" = "us-east-1a"} }
  }
  preferred {
    topology { segments { "rack" = "R1", "zone" = "us-east-1a"} }
  }
}

secrets {
  example_secret = "xyzzy"
}

parameters {
  skuname = "Premium_LRS"
}
```

## Volume Specification Parameters

- `id` `(string: <required>)` - The unique ID of the volume. This is how the
  [`volume.source`][csi_volume_source] field in a job specification will refer
  to the volume.

- `namespace` `(string: <optional>)` - The namespace of the volume. This field
  overrides the namespace provided by the `-namespace` flag or `NOMAD_NAMESPACE`
  environment variable. Defaults to `"default"` if unset.

- `name` `(string: <required>)` - The display name of the volume. On **volume
  creation**, this field may be used by the external storage provider to tag
  the volume.

- `type` `(string: <required>)` - The type of volume. Currently only `"csi"`
  is supported.

- `external_id` `(string: <required>)` - The ID of the physical volume from
  the storage provider. For example, the volume ID of an AWS EBS volume or
  Digital Ocean volume. Only allowed on **volume registration**.

- `plugin_id` `(string: <required>)` - The ID of the [CSI plugin][csi_plugin]
  that manages this volume.

- `snapshot_id` `(string: <optional>)` - If the storage provider supports
  snapshots, the external ID of the snapshot to restore when creating this
  volume. If omitted, the volume will be created from scratch. The
  `snapshot_id` cannot be set if the `clone_id` field is set. Only allowed on
  **volume creation**.

- `clone_id` `(string: <optional>)` - If the storage provider supports cloning,
  the external ID of the volume to clone when creating this volume. If omitted,
  the volume will be created from scratch. The `clone_id` cannot be set if the
  `snapshot_id` field is set. Only allowed on **volume creation**.

- `capacity_min` `(string: <optional>)` - Option for requesting a minimum
  capacity, in bytes. The capacity of a volume may be the physical size of a
  disk, or a quota, depending on the storage provider. The specific size of the
  resulting volume will be somewhere between `capacity_min` and `capacity_max`;
  the exact behavior is up to the storage provider. If you want to specify an
  exact size, you should set `capacity_min` and `capacity_max` to the same
  value. Accepts human-friendly suffixes such as `"100GiB"`. This field may not
  be supported by all storage providers. Increasing this value and re-issuing
  `volume create` or `volume register` may expand the volume, if the CSI plugin
  supports it.

- `capacity_max` `(string: <optional>)` - Option for requesting a maximum
  capacity, in bytes. The capacity of a volume may be the physical size of a
  disk, or a quota, depending on the storage provider. The specific size of the
  resulting volume will be somewhere between `capacity_min` and `capacity_max`;
  the exact behavior is up to the storage provider. If you want to specify an
  exact size, you should set `capacity_min` and `capacity_max` to the same
  value. Accepts human-friendly suffixes such as `"100GiB"`. This field may not
  be supported by all storage providers.

- `capability` <code>([Capability][capability]: &lt;required&gt;)</code> -
  Option for validating the capability of a volume.

- `mount_options` <code>([MountOptions][mount_options]: &lt;required&gt;)</code> -
  Options for mounting `file-system` volumes that don't already have a
  pre-formatted file system.

- `topology_request` <code>([TopologyRequest][topology_request]: nil)</code> -
  Specify locations (region, zone, rack, etc.) where the provisioned volume
  must be accessible from in the case of **volume creation** or the locations
  where the existing volume is accessible from in the case of **volume
  registration**.

- `secrets` <code>(map<string|string>:nil)</code> - An optional key-value map
  of strings used as credentials for publishing and unpublishing volumes.

- `parameters` <code>(map<string|string>:nil)</code> - An optional key-value
  map of strings passed directly to the CSI plugin to configure the volume. The
  details of these parameters are specific to each storage provider, so consult
  the specific plugin documentation for more information.

- `context` <code>(map<string|string>:nil)</code> - An optional key-value map
  of strings passed directly to the CSI plugin to validate the volume. The
  details of these parameters are specific to each storage provider, so consult
  the specific plugin documentation for more information. Only allowed on
  **volume registration**.

## Differences Between Create and Register

Several fields are set automatically by the plugin when `volume create` or
`volume register` commands are successful and you should not set their values
if they are not supported by the operation.

You should not set the [`snapshot_id`](#snapshot_id), or [`clone_id`](#clone_id)
fields on **volume registration**.

And you should not set the [`external_id`](#external_id) or
[`context`](#context) fields on **volume creation**.

## Updating a Volume Definition

The `volume register` command allows updating a volume definition. But not all
fields can be updated after the volume is registered:

* The `capacity_min` and `capacity_max` fields can be updated, and may increase
  the volume size if the CSI plugin supports it. Expansion may or may not be
  possible while the volume is in use, again depending on the plugin.
  Reducing volume capacity is not allowed per the CSI spec.
* The `capability` blocks can be added or removed, but only if the capability is
  not currently in use by a mounted volume.
* The `mount_options` block can be updated if the volume is not in use.
* The `secrets` block can be updated.
* The `context` block can be updated. The values for this field are typically
  provided by the CSI plugin, and should not be updated unless recommended by
  the CSI plugin's documentation.

## Volume Expansion

CSI Volumes may be expanded (increased in size) if the CSI controller plugin
(and node plugin, if required) has the `EXPAND_VOLUME` capability.

To trigger a volume expansion, increase [`capacity_min`](#capacity_min)
above the current real capacity of the volume (as seen with the
[`volume status`][] command), and re-issue either [`volume create`][]
or [`volume register`][].

Nomad will reconcile the requested capacity by issuing expand volume requests
to the controller plugin, and if required by the controller, also to the
node plugins for each allocation that has a claim on the volume.

## Examples

### Volume registration

This is an example file used for the [`volume register`] command.

```hcl
id              = "ebs_prod_db1"
name            = "database"
type            = "csi"
external_id     = "vol-23452345"
plugin_id       = "ebs-prod"

capability {
  access_mode     = "single-node-reader-only"
  attachment_mode = "file-system"
}

capability {
  access_mode     = "single-node-writer"
  attachment_mode = "file-system"
}

mount_options {
  fs_type     = "ext4"
  mount_flags = ["noatime"]
}

topology_request {
  required {
    topology { segments { "rack" = "R2" } }
    topology { segments { "rack" = "R1", "zone" = "us-east-1a"} }
  }
}

secrets {
  example_secret = "xyzzy"
}

parameters {
  skuname = "Premium_LRS"
}

context {
  endpoint = "http://192.168.1.101:9425"
}
```


### Example Volume Expansion

Either [`volume create`][] or [`volume register`][] commands can trigger
an expand to occur, after the volume has already been created or registered.

Example using `volume create`, with a `volume.hcl` file:

```hcl
id        = "ebs_prod_db1"
name      = "database"
type      = "csi"
plugin_id = "ebs-prod"

capacity_min = "50gib"
capacity_max = "50gib"

# ... etc ...
```

Create the volume:

```shell-session
$ nomad volume create volume.hcl
Created external volume vol-asdf1234 with ID ebs_prod_db1
```

See its current capacity with [`volume status`][]:

```shell-session
$ nomad volume status ebs_prod_db1 | grep Capacity
Capacity             = 50 GiB
```

Update `volume.hcl`:

```hcl
id        = "ebs_prod_db1"
name      = "database"
type      = "csi"
plugin_id = "ebs-prod"
# all of the above must remain the same

capacity_min = "100gib" # double
capacity_max = "100gib" # increased to match

# ... etc ...
```

Run `volume create` again:

```shell-session
$ nomad volume create volume.hcl
Created external volume vol-asdf1234 with ID ebs_prod_db1
```

Check the volume capacity again:

```shell-session
$ nomad volume status ebs_prod_db1 | grep Capacity
Capacity             = 100 GiB
```

If you encounter errors that are not clear from the command output,
the CSI plugin allocation logs and/or Nomad leader server logs may be
helpful.

[api_volume_create]: /nomad/api-docs/volumes#create-volume
[api_volume_register]: /nomad/api-docs/volumes#register-volume
[capability]: /nomad/docs/other-specifications/volume/capability
[csi_plugin]: /nomad/docs/job-specification/csi_plugin
[csi_volume_source]: /nomad/docs/job-specification/volume#source
[mount_options]: /nomad/docs/other-specifications/volume/mount_options
[topology_request]: /nomad/docs/other-specifications/volume/topology_request
[`volume create`]: /nomad/docs/commands/volume/create
[`volume register`]: /nomad/docs/commands/volume/register
[`volume status`]: /nomad/docs/commands/volume/status

Commit message:

clarify that CSI volume  updates via nomad volume register are declarative replacements

website/content/docs/other-specifications/volume/index.mdx, after:

---
layout: docs
page_title: Volume Specification
description: Learn about the Volume specification used to create and register volumes to Nomad.
---

# Volume Specification

The Nomad volume specification defines the schema for creating and registering
volumes using the [`volume create`] and [`volume register`] commands and the
[`PUT /v1/volume/csi/:volume_id/create`][api_volume_create] and [`PUT
/v1/volume/csi/:volume_id`][api_volume_register] API endpoints.

Some attributes are only be supported by specific operation, while others may
have a different meaning for each action, so read the documentation for each
attribute carefully. The section [Differences Between Create and
Register](#differences-between-create-and-register) provides a summary of the
differences.

The file may be provided as either HCL or JSON to the commands and as JSON to
the API. An example HCL configuration for a `volume create` command:

```hcl
id           = "ebs_prod_db1"
namespace    = "default"
name         = "database"
type         = "csi"
plugin_id    = "ebs-prod"
snapshot_id  = "snap-12345" # or clone_id, see below
capacity_max = "200G"
capacity_min = "100G"

capability {
  access_mode     = "single-node-reader-only"
  attachment_mode = "file-system"
}

capability {
  access_mode     = "single-node-writer"
  attachment_mode = "file-system"
}

mount_options {
  fs_type     = "ext4"
  mount_flags = ["noatime"]
}

topology_request {
  required {
    topology { segments { "rack" = "R2" } }
    topology { segments { "rack" = "R1", "zone" = "us-east-1a"} }
  }
  preferred {
    topology { segments { "rack" = "R1", "zone" = "us-east-1a"} }
  }
}

secrets {
  example_secret = "xyzzy"
}

parameters {
  skuname = "Premium_LRS"
}
```

## Volume Specification Parameters

- `id` `(string: <required>)` - The unique ID of the volume. This is how the
  [`volume.source`][csi_volume_source] field in a job specification will refer
  to the volume.

- `namespace` `(string: <optional>)` - The namespace of the volume. This field
  overrides the namespace provided by the `-namespace` flag or `NOMAD_NAMESPACE`
  environment variable. Defaults to `"default"` if unset.

- `name` `(string: <required>)` - The display name of the volume. On **volume
  creation**, this field may be used by the external storage provider to tag
  the volume.

- `type` `(string: <required>)` - The type of volume. Currently only `"csi"`
  is supported.

- `external_id` `(string: <required>)` - The ID of the physical volume from
  the storage provider. For example, the volume ID of an AWS EBS volume or
  Digital Ocean volume. Only allowed on **volume registration**.

- `plugin_id` `(string: <required>)` - The ID of the [CSI plugin][csi_plugin]
  that manages this volume.

- `snapshot_id` `(string: <optional>)` - If the storage provider supports
  snapshots, the external ID of the snapshot to restore when creating this
  volume. If omitted, the volume will be created from scratch. The
  `snapshot_id` cannot be set if the `clone_id` field is set. Only allowed on
  **volume creation**.

- `clone_id` `(string: <optional>)` - If the storage provider supports cloning,
  the external ID of the volume to clone when creating this volume. If omitted,
  the volume will be created from scratch. The `clone_id` cannot be set if the
  `snapshot_id` field is set. Only allowed on **volume creation**.

- `capacity_min` `(string: <optional>)` - Option for requesting a minimum
  capacity, in bytes. The capacity of a volume may be the physical size of a
  disk, or a quota, depending on the storage provider. The specific size of the
  resulting volume will be somewhere between `capacity_min` and `capacity_max`;
  the exact behavior is up to the storage provider. If you want to specify an
  exact size, you should set `capacity_min` and `capacity_max` to the same
  value. Accepts human-friendly suffixes such as `"100GiB"`. This field may not
  be supported by all storage providers. Increasing this value and re-issuing
  `volume create` or `volume register` may expand the volume, if the CSI plugin
  supports it.

- `capacity_max` `(string: <optional>)` - Option for requesting a maximum
  capacity, in bytes. The capacity of a volume may be the physical size of a
  disk, or a quota, depending on the storage provider. The specific size of the
  resulting volume will be somewhere between `capacity_min` and `capacity_max`;
  the exact behavior is up to the storage provider. If you want to specify an
  exact size, you should set `capacity_min` and `capacity_max` to the same
  value. Accepts human-friendly suffixes such as `"100GiB"`. This field may not
  be supported by all storage providers.

- `capability` <code>([Capability][capability]: &lt;required&gt;)</code> -
  Option for validating the capability of a volume.

- `mount_options` <code>([MountOptions][mount_options]: &lt;required&gt;)</code> -
  Options for mounting `file-system` volumes that don't already have a
  pre-formatted file system.

- `topology_request` <code>([TopologyRequest][topology_request]: nil)</code> -
  Specify locations (region, zone, rack, etc.) where the provisioned volume
  must be accessible from in the case of **volume creation** or the locations
  where the existing volume is accessible from in the case of **volume
  registration**.

- `secrets` <code>(map<string|string>:nil)</code> - An optional key-value map
  of strings used as credentials for publishing and unpublishing volumes.

- `parameters` <code>(map<string|string>:nil)</code> - An optional key-value
  map of strings passed directly to the CSI plugin to configure the volume. The
  details of these parameters are specific to each storage provider, so consult
  the specific plugin documentation for more information.

- `context` <code>(map<string|string>:nil)</code> - An optional key-value map
  of strings passed directly to the CSI plugin to validate the volume. The
  details of these parameters are specific to each storage provider, so consult
  the specific plugin documentation for more information. Only allowed on
  **volume registration**. Note that this block is declarative, and an update 
  replaces it in its entirety, thefore all paramters need to be specified.

## Differences Between Create and Register

Several fields are set automatically by the plugin when `volume create` or
`volume register` commands are successful and you should not set their values
if they are not supported by the operation.

You should not set the [`snapshot_id`](#snapshot_id), or [`clone_id`](#clone_id)
fields on **volume registration**.

And you should not set the [`external_id`](#external_id) or
[`context`](#context) fields on **volume creation**.

## Updating a Volume Definition

The `volume register` command allows updating a volume definition. But not all
fields can be updated after the volume is registered:

* The `capacity_min` and `capacity_max` fields can be updated, and may increase
  the volume size if the CSI plugin supports it. Expansion may or may not be
  possible while the volume is in use, again depending on the plugin.
  Reducing volume capacity is not allowed per the CSI spec.
* The `capability` blocks can be added or removed, but only if the capability is
  not currently in use by a mounted volume.
* The `mount_options` block can be updated if the volume is not in use.
* The `secrets` block can be updated.
* The `context` block can be updated. The values for this field are typically
  provided by the CSI plugin, and should not be updated unless recommended by
  the CSI plugin's documentation.

## Volume Expansion

CSI Volumes may be expanded (increased in size) if the CSI controller plugin
(and node plugin, if required) has the `EXPAND_VOLUME` capability.

To trigger a volume expansion, increase [`capacity_min`](#capacity_min)
above the current real capacity of the volume (as seen with the
[`volume status`][] command), and re-issue either [`volume create`][]
or [`volume register`][].

Nomad will reconcile the requested capacity by issuing expand volume requests
to the controller plugin, and if required by the controller, also to the
node plugins for each allocation that has a claim on the volume.

## Examples

### Volume registration

This is an example file used for the [`volume register`] command.

```hcl
id              = "ebs_prod_db1"
name            = "database"
type            = "csi"
external_id     = "vol-23452345"
plugin_id       = "ebs-prod"

capability {
  access_mode     = "single-node-reader-only"
  attachment_mode = "file-system"
}

capability {
  access_mode     = "single-node-writer"
  attachment_mode = "file-system"
}

mount_options {
  fs_type     = "ext4"
  mount_flags = ["noatime"]
}

topology_request {
  required {
    topology { segments { "rack" = "R2" } }
    topology { segments { "rack" = "R1", "zone" = "us-east-1a"} }
  }
}

secrets {
  example_secret = "xyzzy"
}

parameters {
  skuname = "Premium_LRS"
}

context {
  endpoint = "http://192.168.1.101:9425"
}
```


### Example Volume Expansion

Either [`volume create`][] or [`volume register`][] commands can trigger
an expand to occur, after the volume has already been created or registered.

Example using `volume create`, with a `volume.hcl` file:

```hcl
id        = "ebs_prod_db1"
name      = "database"
type      = "csi"
plugin_id = "ebs-prod"

capacity_min = "50gib"
capacity_max = "50gib"

# ... etc ...
```

Create the volume:

```shell-session
$ nomad volume create volume.hcl
Created external volume vol-asdf1234 with ID ebs_prod_db1
```

See its current capacity with [`volume status`][]:

```shell-session
$ nomad volume status ebs_prod_db1 | grep Capacity
Capacity             = 50 GiB
```

Update `volume.hcl`:

```hcl
id        = "ebs_prod_db1"
name      = "database"
type      = "csi"
plugin_id = "ebs-prod"
# all of the above must remain the same

capacity_min = "100gib" # double
capacity_max = "100gib" # increased to match

# ... etc ...
```

Run `volume create` again:

```shell-session
$ nomad volume create volume.hcl
Created external volume vol-asdf1234 with ID ebs_prod_db1
```

Check the volume capacity again:

```shell-session
$ nomad volume status ebs_prod_db1 | grep Capacity
Capacity             = 100 GiB
```

If you encounter errors that are not clear from the command output,
the CSI plugin allocation logs and/or Nomad leader server logs may be
helpful.

[api_volume_create]: /nomad/api-docs/volumes#create-volume
[api_volume_register]: /nomad/api-docs/volumes#register-volume
[capability]: /nomad/docs/other-specifications/volume/capability
[csi_plugin]: /nomad/docs/job-specification/csi_plugin
[csi_volume_source]: /nomad/docs/job-specification/volume#source
[mount_options]: /nomad/docs/other-specifications/volume/mount_options
[topology_request]: /nomad/docs/other-specifications/volume/topology_request
[`volume create`]: /nomad/docs/commands/volume/create
[`volume register`]: /nomad/docs/commands/volume/register
[`volume status`]: /nomad/docs/commands/volume/status
