website/content/api-docs/acl/auth-methods.mdx, before:

---
layout: api
page_title: ACL auth methods - HTTP API
description: The /acl/auth-methods endpoints are used to configure and manage ACL auth methods.
---

# ACL auth methods HTTP API

The `/acl/auth-methods` and `/acl/auth-method` endpoints are used to manage ACL auth methods.

## Create auth method

This endpoint creates an ACL auth method. The request is always forwarded to the
authoritative region.

| Method | Path               | Produces           |
| ------ | ------------------ | ------------------ |
| `POST` | `/acl/auth-method` | `application/json` |

The table below shows this endpoint's support for
[blocking queries](/nomad/api-docs#blocking-queries) and
[required ACLs](/nomad/api-docs#acls).

| Blocking Queries | ACL Required |
| ---------------- | ------------ |
| `NO`             | `management` |

### Parameters

- `Name` `(string: <required>)` - Names is the identifier of the ACL auth
  method.  The name can contain alphanumeric characters, dashes, and underscores.
  This name must be unique and must not exceed 128 characters.

- `Type` `(string: <required>)` - ACL auth role SSO identifier.

- `TokenLocality` `(string: <required>)` - Defines whether the ACL auth method
  creates a local or global token when performing SSO login. This field must be
  set to either "local" or "global"

- `TokenNameFormat` `(string <optional>)` - Defines the token name format for the
  generated tokens This can be lightly templated using HIL '${foo}' syntax. 
  Defaults to '${auth_method_type}-${auth_method_name}'

- `MaxTokenTTL` `(duration: <required>)` - Defines the maximum life of a token created
  by this method. When set, it will initialize the `ExpirationTime` field on all
  tokens to a value of `Token.CreateTime + AuthMethod.MaxTokenTTL`. This field is
  not persisted beyond its initial use. Can be specified in the form of `"60s"` or
  `"5m"` (i.e., 60 seconds or 5 minutes, respectively).

- `Default` `(bool: false)` - Defines whether this ACL Auth Method is to be
  set as default when running `nomad login` command.

- `Config` `(ACLAuthMethodConfig: <required>)` - The raw configuration to use for
  the auth method. This parameter is part of the auth method configuration, not
  specific to Nomad.

  - `OIDCDiscoveryURL` `(string: <required>)` - The OIDC discovery URL, without
    any .well-known component (base path).

  - `OIDCClientID` `(string: <required>)` - The OAuth client ID configured with
    your OIDC provider.

  - `OIDCClientSecret` `(string: <required>)` - The OAuth client secret
    configured with your OIDC provider.

  - `OIDCScopes` `(array<string>)` - List of OIDC scopes.

  - `BoundAudiences` `(array<string>)` - List of aud claims that are valid for
    login; any match is sufficient.

  - `AllowedRedirectURIs` `(array<string>)` - A list of allowed values for
    redirect_uri. Must be non-empty.

  - `DiscoveryCaPem` `(array<string>)` - PEM encoded CA certs for use by the TLS
    client used to talk with the OIDC discovery URL. If not set, system
    certificates are used.

  - `SigningAlgs` `(array<string>)` - A list of supported signing algorithms.
    Defaults to `RS256`.

  - `ClaimMappings` `(map[string]string)` - Mappings of claims (key) that will
    be copied to a metadata field (value). Use this if the claim you are capturing
    is singular (such as an attribute).

    When mapped, the values in each list can be any of a number, string, or
    boolean and will all be stringified when returned.

  - `ListClaimMappings` `(map[string]string)` - Mappings of claims (key) will be
    copied to a metadata field (value). Use this if the claim you are capturing is
    list-like (such as groups).

### Sample payload

```json
{
  "Name": "example-acl-auth-method",
  "Type": "OIDC",
  "TokenLocality": "local",
  "TokenNameFormat": "${auth_method_type}-${value.user}",
  "MaxTokenTTL": "1h0m0s",
  "Default": false,
  "Config": {
    "OIDCDiscoveryURL": "https://my-corp-app-name.auth0.com/",
    "OIDCClientID": "V1RPi2MYptMV1RPi2MYptMV1RPi2MYpt",
    "OIDCClientSecret": "example-client-secret",
    "OIDCScopes": [
      "groups"
    ],
    "BoundAudiences": [
      "V1RPi2MYptMV1RPi2MYptMV1RPi2MYpt"
    ],
    "AllowedRedirectURIs": [
      "http://localhost:4646/oidc/callback"
    ],
    "ClaimMappings": {
      "http://example.com/first_name": "first_name",
      "http://example.com/last_name": "last_name"
    },
    "ListClaimMappings": {
      "http://nomad.com/groups": "groups"
    }
  }
}
```

### Sample request

```shell-session
$ curl \
    --request POST \
    --header "X-Nomad-Token: <NOMAD_TOKEN_SECRET_ID>" \
    --data @payload.json \
    https://localhost:4646/v1/acl/auth-method
```

### Sample response

```json
{
    "MaxTokenTTL": "1h0m0s",
    "Name": "example-acl-auth-method",
    "Type": "OIDC",
    "TokenLocality": "local",
    "TokenNameFormat": "${auth_method_type}-${value.user}",
    "Default": false,
    "Config": {
        "OIDCDiscoveryURL": "https://my-corp-app-name.auth0.com/",
        "OIDCClientID": "v1rpi2myptmv1rpi2myptmv1rpi2mypt",
        "OIDCClientSecret": "example-client-secret",
        "OIDCScopes": [
            "groups"
        ],
        "BoundAudiences": [
            "v1rpi2myptmv1rpi2myptmv1rpi2mypt"
        ],
        "AllowedRedirectURIs": [
            "http://localhost:4646/oidc/callback"
        ],
        "DiscoveryCaPem": null,
        "SigningAlgs": null,
        "ClaimMappings": {
            "http://example.com/first_name": "first_name",
            "http://example.com/last_name": "last_name"
        },
        "ListClaimMappings": {
            "http://nomad.com/groups": "groups"
        }
    },
    "CreateTime": "2022-12-08T11:04:43.46206Z",
    "ModifyTime": "2022-12-08T11:04:43.46206Z",
    "CreateIndex": 12,
    "ModifyIndex": 12
}
```

## Update auth method

This endpoint updates an existing ACL auth method. The request is always
forwarded to the authoritative region.

| Method | Path                            | Produces           |
| ------ | ------------------------------- | ------------------ |
| `POST` | `/acl/auth-method/:method_name` | `application/json` |

The table below shows this endpoint's support for [blocking
queries](/nomad/api-docs#blocking-queries) and [required ACLs](/nomad/api-docs#acls).

| Blocking Queries | ACL Required |
| ---------------- | ------------ |
| `NO`             | `management` |

### Parameters

- `Name` `(string: <required>)` - Names is the identifier of the ACL auth
  method.  The name can contain alphanumeric characters, dashes, and underscores.
  This name must be unique and must not exceed 128 characters.

- `Type` `(string: <required>)` - ACL auth role SSO identifier. Currently, the
  only supported Type is "OIDC."

- `TokenLocality` `(string: "")` - Defines whether the ACL auth method
  creates a local or global token when performing SSO login. This field must be
  set to either "local" or "global"

- `TokenNameFormat` `(string <optional>)` - Defines the token name format for the
  generated tokens This can be lightly templated using HIL '${foo}' syntax. 
  Defaults to '${auth_method_type}-${auth_method_name}'

- `MaxTokenTTL` `(duration: <required>)` - Defines the maximum life of a token created
  by this method. When set it will initialize the `ExpirationTime` field on all
  tokens to a value of `Token.CreateTime + AuthMethod.MaxTokenTTL`. This field is
  not persisted beyond its initial use. Can be specified in the form of `"60s"` or
  `"5m"` (i.e., 60 seconds or 5 minutes, respectively).

- `Default` `(bool: false)` - Defines whether this ACL auth method is to be
  set as default when running `nomad login` command.

- `Config` `(ACLAuthMethodConfig: nil)` - The raw configuration to use for
  the auth method. This parameter is part of the auth method configuration, not
  specific to Nomad.

  - `OIDCDiscoveryURL` `(string: "")` - The OIDC discovery URL, without
    any .well-known component (base path).

  - `OIDCClientID` `(string: "")` - The OAuth client ID configured with
    your OIDC provider.

  - `OIDCClientSecret` `(string: "")` - The OAuth client secret
    configured with your OIDC provider.

  - `OIDCScopes` `(array<string>)` - List of OIDC scopes.

  - `BoundAudiences` `(array<string>)` - List of aud claims that are valid for
    login; any match is sufficient.

  - `AllowedRedirectURIs` `(array<string>)` - A list of allowed values for
    redirect_uri. Must be non-empty.

  - `DiscoveryCaPem` `(array<string>)` - PEM encoded CA certs for use by the TLS
    client used to talk with the OIDC discovery URL. If not set, system
    certificates are used.

  - `SigningAlgs` `(array<string>)` - A list of supported signing algorithms.
    Defaults to `RS256`.

  - `ClaimMappings` `(map[string]string)` - Mappings of claims (key) that will
    be copied to a metadata field (value). Use this if the claim you are capturing
    is singular (such as an attribute).

    When mapped, the values in each list can be any of a number, string, or
    boolean and will all be stringified when returned.

  - `ListClaimMappings` `(map[string]string)` - Mappings of claims (key) will be
    copied to a metadata field (value). Use this if the claim you are capturing is
    list-like (such as groups).

### Sample Payload

```json
{
  "Name": "example-acl-auth-method",
  "Type": "OIDC",
  "Tokenlocality": "global",
  "TokenNameFormat": "${auth_method_type}-${value.user}",
  "Maxtokenttl": "1h0m0s",
  "Default": true,
  "Config": {
    "OIDCDiscoveryURL": "https://my-corp-app-name.auth0.com/",
    "OIDCClientID": "V1RPi2MYptMV1RPi2MYptMV1RPi2MYpt",
    "OIDCClientSecret": "example-client-secret",
    "OIDCScopes": [
      "groups"
    ],
    "BoundAudiences": [
      "V1RPi2MYptMV1RPi2MYptMV1RPi2MYpt"
    ],
    "AllowedRedirectURIs": [
      "http://localhost:4646/oidc/callback"
    ],
    "ClaimMappings": {
      "http://example.com/first_name": "first_name",
      "http://example.com/last_name": "last_name"
    },
    "ListClaimMappings": {
      "http://nomad.com/groups": "groups"
    }
  }
}
```

### Sample Request

```shell-session
$ curl \
    --request POST \
    --header "X-Nomad-Token: <NOMAD_TOKEN_SECRET_ID>" \
    --data @payload.json \
    https://localhost:4646/v1/acl/auth-method/example-acl-auth-method
```

### Sample Response

```json
{
    "MaxTokenTTL": "1h0m0s",
    "Name": "example-acl-auth-method",
    "Type": "OIDC",
    "TokenLocality": "global",
    "TokenNameFormat": "${auth_method_type}-${value.user}",
    "Default": true,
    "Config": {
        "OIDCDiscoveryURL": "https://my-corp-app-name.auth0.com/",
        "OIDCClientID": "V1RPi2MYptMV1RPi2MYptMV1RPi2MYpt",
        "OIDCClientSecret": "example-client-secret",
        "OIDCScopes": [
          "groups"
        ],
        "BoundAudiences": [
          "V1RPi2MYptMV1RPi2MYptMV1RPi2MYpt"
        ],
        "AllowedRedirectURIs": [
          "http://localhost:4646/oidc/callback"
        ],
        "ClaimMappings": {
          "http://example.com/first_name": "first_name",
          "http://example.com/last_name": "last_name"
        },
        "ListClaimMappings": {
          "http://nomad.com/groups": "groups"
        }
    },
    "CreateTime": "2022-12-08T11:04:43.46206Z",
    "ModifyTime": "2022-12-08T11:04:43.46206Z",
    "CreateIndex": 12,
    "ModifyIndex": 32
}
```

## List auth methods

This endpoint lists all ACL auth methods. This lists the auth methods that have
been replicated to the region, and may lag behind the authoritative region.

| Method | Path                | Produces           |
| ------ | ------------------- | ------------------ |
| `GET`  | `/acl/auth-methods` | `application/json` |

The table below shows this endpoint's support for
[blocking queries](/nomad/api-docs#blocking-queries),
[consistency modes](/nomad/api-docs#consistency-modes) and
[required ACLs](/nomad/api-docs#acls).

| Blocking Queries | Consistency Modes | ACL Required                                                                                                                             |
| ---------------- | ----------------- | ---- |
| `YES`            | `all`             | None |

### Sample request

```shell-session
$ curl \
    --header "X-Nomad-Token: <NOMAD_TOKEN_SECRET_ID>" \
    https://localhost:4646/v1/acl/auth-methods
```

### Sample response

```json
[
    {
        "CreateIndex": 12,
        "Default": true,
        "ModifyIndex": 32,
        "Name": "example-acl-auth-method",
        "Type": "OIDC"
    }
]
```

## Read auth method by name

This endpoint reads an ACL Auth Method with the given name. This queries the
auth method that has been replicated to the region, and may lag behind the
authoritative region.

| Method | Path                            | Produces           |
| ------ | ------------------------------- | ------------------ |
| `GET`  | `/acl/auth-method/:method_name` | `application/json` |

The table below shows this endpoint's support for
[blocking queries](/nomad/api-docs#blocking-queries),
[consistency modes](/nomad/api-docs#consistency-modes) and
[required ACLs](/nomad/api-docs#acls).

| Blocking Queries | Consistency Modes | ACL Required       |
| ---------------- | ----------------- | ------------------ |
| `YES`            | `all`             | `management` token |

### Parameters

- `:method_name` `(string: <required>)` - Specifies the name of the ACL auth
  method. This is specified as part of the path.

### Sample request

```shell-session
$ curl \
    --header "X-Nomad-Token: <NOMAD_TOKEN_SECRET_ID>" \
    https://localhost:4646/v1/acl/auth-method/example-acl-auth-method
```

### Sample response

```json
{
    "MaxTokenTTL": "1h0m0s",
    "Name": "example-acl-auth-method",
    "Type": "OIDC",
    "TokenLocality": "global",
    "TokenNameFormat": "${auth_method_type}-${value.user}",
    "Default": true,
    "Config": {
      "OIDCDiscoveryURL": "https://my-corp-app-name.auth0.com/",
      "OIDCClientID": "V1RPi2MYptMV1RPi2MYptMV1RPi2MYpt",
      "OIDCClientSecret": "example-client-secret",
      "OIDCScopes": [
        "groups"
      ],
      "BoundAudiences": [
        "V1RPi2MYptMV1RPi2MYptMV1RPi2MYpt"
      ],
      "AllowedRedirectURIs": [
        "http://localhost:4646/oidc/callback"
      ],
      "ClaimMappings": {
        "http://example.com/first_name": "first_name",
        "http://example.com/last_name": "last_name"
      },
      "ListClaimMappings": {
        "http://nomad.com/groups": "groups"
      }
    },
    "CreateTime": "2022-12-08T11:04:43.46206Z",
    "ModifyTime": "2022-12-08T11:04:43.46206Z",
    "CreateIndex": 12,
    "ModifyIndex": 32
}
```

## Delete auth method

This endpoint deletes the ACL auth method as identified by its name. This
request is always forwarded to the authoritative region.

| Method   | Path                            | Produces       |
| -------- | ------------------------------- | -------------- |
| `DELETE` | `/acl/auth-method/:method_name` | `(empty body)` |

The table below shows this endpoint's support for
[blocking queries](/nomad/api-docs#blocking-queries) and
[required ACLs](/nomad/api-docs#acls).

| Blocking Queries | ACL Required |
| ---------------- | ------------ |
| `NO`             | `management` |

### Parameters

- `method_name` `(string: <required>)` - Specifies the name of auth method to
  delete and is specified as part of the path.

### Sample Request

```shell-session
$ curl \
    --request DELETE \
    --header "X-Nomad-Token: <NOMAD_TOKEN_SECRET_ID>" \
    https://localhost:4646/v1/acl/auth-method/example-acl-auth-method
```

Commit message:

auth: add new optional `OIDCDisableUserInfo` setting for OIDC auth provider (#19566)
Add new optional `OIDCDisableUserInfo` setting for OIDC auth provider which
disables a request to the identity provider to get OIDC UserInfo.

This option is helpful when your identity provider doesn't send any additional
claims from the UserInfo endpoint, such as Microsoft AD FS OIDC Provider:

> The AD FS UserInfo endpoint always returns the subject claim as specified in the
> OpenID standards. AD FS doesn't support additional claims requested via the
> UserInfo endpoint

Fixes #19318

website/content/api-docs/acl/auth-methods.mdx, after:

---
layout: api
page_title: ACL auth methods - HTTP API
description: The /acl/auth-methods endpoints are used to configure and manage ACL auth methods.
---

# ACL auth methods HTTP API

The `/acl/auth-methods` and `/acl/auth-method` endpoints are used to manage ACL auth methods.

## Create auth method

This endpoint creates an ACL auth method. The request is always forwarded to the
authoritative region.

| Method | Path               | Produces           |
| ------ | ------------------ | ------------------ |
| `POST` | `/acl/auth-method` | `application/json` |

The table below shows this endpoint's support for
[blocking queries](/nomad/api-docs#blocking-queries) and
[required ACLs](/nomad/api-docs#acls).

| Blocking Queries | ACL Required |
| ---------------- | ------------ |
| `NO`             | `management` |

### Parameters

- `Name` `(string: <required>)` - Names is the identifier of the ACL auth
  method.  The name can contain alphanumeric characters, dashes, and underscores.
  This name must be unique and must not exceed 128 characters.

- `Type` `(string: <required>)` - ACL auth role SSO identifier.

- `TokenLocality` `(string: <required>)` - Defines whether the ACL auth method
  creates a local or global token when performing SSO login. This field must be
  set to either "local" or "global"

- `TokenNameFormat` `(string <optional>)` - Defines the token name format for the
  generated tokens This can be lightly templated using HIL '${foo}' syntax. 
  Defaults to '${auth_method_type}-${auth_method_name}'

- `MaxTokenTTL` `(duration: <required>)` - Defines the maximum life of a token created
  by this method. When set, it will initialize the `ExpirationTime` field on all
  tokens to a value of `Token.CreateTime + AuthMethod.MaxTokenTTL`. This field is
  not persisted beyond its initial use. Can be specified in the form of `"60s"` or
  `"5m"` (i.e., 60 seconds or 5 minutes, respectively).

- `Default` `(bool: false)` - Defines whether this ACL Auth Method is to be
  set as default when running `nomad login` command.

- `Config` `(ACLAuthMethodConfig: <required>)` - The raw configuration to use for
  the auth method. This parameter is part of the auth method configuration, not
  specific to Nomad.

  - `OIDCDiscoveryURL` `(string: <required>)` - The OIDC discovery URL, without
    any .well-known component (base path).

  - `OIDCClientID` `(string: <required>)` - The OAuth client ID configured with
    your OIDC provider.

  - `OIDCClientSecret` `(string: <required>)` - The OAuth client secret
    configured with your OIDC provider.

  - `OIDCDisableUserInfo` `(bool: false)` - When set to `true`, Nomad will not make 
    a request to the identity provider to get OIDC UserInfo. You may wish to set this
    if your identity provider doesn't send any additional claims from the UserInfo
    endpoint.

  - `OIDCScopes` `(array<string>)` - List of OIDC scopes.

  - `BoundAudiences` `(array<string>)` - List of aud claims that are valid for
    login; any match is sufficient.

  - `AllowedRedirectURIs` `(array<string>)` - A list of allowed values for
    redirect_uri. Must be non-empty.

  - `DiscoveryCaPem` `(array<string>)` - PEM encoded CA certs for use by the TLS
    client used to talk with the OIDC discovery URL. If not set, system
    certificates are used.

  - `SigningAlgs` `(array<string>)` - A list of supported signing algorithms.
    Defaults to `RS256`.

  - `ClaimMappings` `(map[string]string)` - Mappings of claims (key) that will
    be copied to a metadata field (value). Use this if the claim you are capturing
    is singular (such as an attribute).

    When mapped, the values in each list can be any of a number, string, or
    boolean and will all be stringified when returned.

  - `ListClaimMappings` `(map[string]string)` - Mappings of claims (key) will be
    copied to a metadata field (value). Use this if the claim you are capturing is
    list-like (such as groups).

### Sample payload

```json
{
  "Name": "example-acl-auth-method",
  "Type": "OIDC",
  "TokenLocality": "local",
  "TokenNameFormat": "${auth_method_type}-${value.user}",
  "MaxTokenTTL": "1h0m0s",
  "Default": false,
  "Config": {
    "OIDCDiscoveryURL": "https://my-corp-app-name.auth0.com/",
    "OIDCClientID": "V1RPi2MYptMV1RPi2MYptMV1RPi2MYpt",
    "OIDCClientSecret": "example-client-secret",
    "OIDCScopes": [
      "groups"
    ],
    "BoundAudiences": [
      "V1RPi2MYptMV1RPi2MYptMV1RPi2MYpt"
    ],
    "AllowedRedirectURIs": [
      "http://localhost:4646/oidc/callback"
    ],
    "ClaimMappings": {
      "http://example.com/first_name": "first_name",
      "http://example.com/last_name": "last_name"
    },
    "ListClaimMappings": {
      "http://nomad.com/groups": "groups"
    }
  }
}
```

### Sample request

```shell-session
$ curl \
    --request POST \
    --header "X-Nomad-Token: <NOMAD_TOKEN_SECRET_ID>" \
    --data @payload.json \
    https://localhost:4646/v1/acl/auth-method
```

### Sample response

```json
{
    "MaxTokenTTL": "1h0m0s",
    "Name": "example-acl-auth-method",
    "Type": "OIDC",
    "TokenLocality": "local",
    "TokenNameFormat": "${auth_method_type}-${value.user}",
    "Default": false,
    "Config": {
        "OIDCDiscoveryURL": "https://my-corp-app-name.auth0.com/",
        "OIDCClientID": "v1rpi2myptmv1rpi2myptmv1rpi2mypt",
        "OIDCClientSecret": "example-client-secret",
        "OIDCScopes": [
            "groups"
        ],
        "BoundAudiences": [
            "v1rpi2myptmv1rpi2myptmv1rpi2mypt"
        ],
        "AllowedRedirectURIs": [
            "http://localhost:4646/oidc/callback"
        ],
        "DiscoveryCaPem": null,
        "SigningAlgs": null,
        "ClaimMappings": {
            "http://example.com/first_name": "first_name",
            "http://example.com/last_name": "last_name"
        },
        "ListClaimMappings": {
            "http://nomad.com/groups": "groups"
        }
    },
    "CreateTime": "2022-12-08T11:04:43.46206Z",
    "ModifyTime": "2022-12-08T11:04:43.46206Z",
    "CreateIndex": 12,
    "ModifyIndex": 12
}
```

## Update auth method

This endpoint updates an existing ACL auth method. The request is always
forwarded to the authoritative region.

| Method | Path                            | Produces           |
| ------ | ------------------------------- | ------------------ |
| `POST` | `/acl/auth-method/:method_name` | `application/json` |

The table below shows this endpoint's support for [blocking
queries](/nomad/api-docs#blocking-queries) and [required ACLs](/nomad/api-docs#acls).

| Blocking Queries | ACL Required |
| ---------------- | ------------ |
| `NO`             | `management` |

### Parameters

- `Name` `(string: <required>)` - Names is the identifier of the ACL auth
  method.  The name can contain alphanumeric characters, dashes, and underscores.
  This name must be unique and must not exceed 128 characters.

- `Type` `(string: <required>)` - ACL auth role SSO identifier. Currently, the
  only supported Type is "OIDC."

- `TokenLocality` `(string: "")` - Defines whether the ACL auth method
  creates a local or global token when performing SSO login. This field must be
  set to either "local" or "global"

- `TokenNameFormat` `(string <optional>)` - Defines the token name format for the
  generated tokens This can be lightly templated using HIL '${foo}' syntax. 
  Defaults to '${auth_method_type}-${auth_method_name}'

- `MaxTokenTTL` `(duration: <required>)` - Defines the maximum life of a token created
  by this method. When set it will initialize the `ExpirationTime` field on all
  tokens to a value of `Token.CreateTime + AuthMethod.MaxTokenTTL`. This field is
  not persisted beyond its initial use. Can be specified in the form of `"60s"` or
  `"5m"` (i.e., 60 seconds or 5 minutes, respectively).

- `Default` `(bool: false)` - Defines whether this ACL auth method is to be
  set as default when running `nomad login` command.

- `Config` `(ACLAuthMethodConfig: nil)` - The raw configuration to use for
  the auth method. This parameter is part of the auth method configuration, not
  specific to Nomad.

  - `OIDCDiscoveryURL` `(string: "")` - The OIDC discovery URL, without
    any .well-known component (base path).

  - `OIDCClientID` `(string: "")` - The OAuth client ID configured with
    your OIDC provider.

  - `OIDCClientSecret` `(string: "")` - The OAuth client secret
    configured with your OIDC provider.

  - `OIDCDisableUserInfo` `(bool: false)` - When set to `true`, Nomad will not make 
    a request to the identity provider to get OIDC UserInfo. You may wish to set this
    if your identity provider doesn't send any additional claims from the UserInfo
    endpoint.

  - `OIDCScopes` `(array<string>)` - List of OIDC scopes.

  - `BoundAudiences` `(array<string>)` - List of aud claims that are valid for
    login; any match is sufficient.

  - `AllowedRedirectURIs` `(array<string>)` - A list of allowed values for
    redirect_uri. Must be non-empty.

  - `DiscoveryCaPem` `(array<string>)` - PEM encoded CA certs for use by the TLS
    client used to talk with the OIDC discovery URL. If not set, system
    certificates are used.

  - `SigningAlgs` `(array<string>)` - A list of supported signing algorithms.
    Defaults to `RS256`.

  - `ClaimMappings` `(map[string]string)` - Mappings of claims (key) that will
    be copied to a metadata field (value). Use this if the claim you are capturing
    is singular (such as an attribute).

    When mapped, the values in each list can be any of a number, string, or
    boolean and will all be stringified when returned.

  - `ListClaimMappings` `(map[string]string)` - Mappings of claims (key) will be
    copied to a metadata field (value). Use this if the claim you are capturing is
    list-like (such as groups).

### Sample Payload

```json
{
  "Name": "example-acl-auth-method",
  "Type": "OIDC",
  "Tokenlocality": "global",
  "TokenNameFormat": "${auth_method_type}-${value.user}",
  "Maxtokenttl": "1h0m0s",
  "Default": true,
  "Config": {
    "OIDCDiscoveryURL": "https://my-corp-app-name.auth0.com/",
    "OIDCClientID": "V1RPi2MYptMV1RPi2MYptMV1RPi2MYpt",
    "OIDCClientSecret": "example-client-secret",
    "OIDCScopes": [
      "groups"
    ],
    "BoundAudiences": [
      "V1RPi2MYptMV1RPi2MYptMV1RPi2MYpt"
    ],
    "AllowedRedirectURIs": [
      "http://localhost:4646/oidc/callback"
    ],
    "ClaimMappings": {
      "http://example.com/first_name": "first_name",
      "http://example.com/last_name": "last_name"
    },
    "ListClaimMappings": {
      "http://nomad.com/groups": "groups"
    }
  }
}
```

### Sample Request

```shell-session
$ curl \
    --request POST \
    --header "X-Nomad-Token: <NOMAD_TOKEN_SECRET_ID>" \
    --data @payload.json \
    https://localhost:4646/v1/acl/auth-method/example-acl-auth-method
```

### Sample Response

```json
{
    "MaxTokenTTL": "1h0m0s",
    "Name": "example-acl-auth-method",
    "Type": "OIDC",
    "TokenLocality": "global",
    "TokenNameFormat": "${auth_method_type}-${value.user}",
    "Default": true,
    "Config": {
        "OIDCDiscoveryURL": "https://my-corp-app-name.auth0.com/",
        "OIDCClientID": "V1RPi2MYptMV1RPi2MYptMV1RPi2MYpt",
        "OIDCClientSecret": "example-client-secret",
        "OIDCScopes": [
          "groups"
        ],
        "BoundAudiences": [
          "V1RPi2MYptMV1RPi2MYptMV1RPi2MYpt"
        ],
        "AllowedRedirectURIs": [
          "http://localhost:4646/oidc/callback"
        ],
        "ClaimMappings": {
          "http://example.com/first_name": "first_name",
          "http://example.com/last_name": "last_name"
        },
        "ListClaimMappings": {
          "http://nomad.com/groups": "groups"
        }
    },
    "CreateTime": "2022-12-08T11:04:43.46206Z",
    "ModifyTime": "2022-12-08T11:04:43.46206Z",
    "CreateIndex": 12,
    "ModifyIndex": 32
}
```

## List auth methods

This endpoint lists all ACL auth methods. This lists the auth methods that have
been replicated to the region, and may lag behind the authoritative region.

| Method | Path                | Produces           |
| ------ | ------------------- | ------------------ |
| `GET`  | `/acl/auth-methods` | `application/json` |

The table below shows this endpoint's support for
[blocking queries](/nomad/api-docs#blocking-queries),
[consistency modes](/nomad/api-docs#consistency-modes) and
[required ACLs](/nomad/api-docs#acls).

| Blocking Queries | Consistency Modes | ACL Required                                                                                                                             |
| ---------------- | ----------------- | ---- |
| `YES`            | `all`             | None |

### Sample request

```shell-session
$ curl \
    --header "X-Nomad-Token: <NOMAD_TOKEN_SECRET_ID>" \
    https://localhost:4646/v1/acl/auth-methods
```

### Sample response

```json
[
    {
        "CreateIndex": 12,
        "Default": true,
        "ModifyIndex": 32,
        "Name": "example-acl-auth-method",
        "Type": "OIDC"
    }
]
```

## Read auth method by name

This endpoint reads an ACL Auth Method with the given name. This queries the
auth method that has been replicated to the region, and may lag behind the
authoritative region.

| Method | Path                            | Produces           |
| ------ | ------------------------------- | ------------------ |
| `GET`  | `/acl/auth-method/:method_name` | `application/json` |

The table below shows this endpoint's support for
[blocking queries](/nomad/api-docs#blocking-queries),
[consistency modes](/nomad/api-docs#consistency-modes) and
[required ACLs](/nomad/api-docs#acls).

| Blocking Queries | Consistency Modes | ACL Required       |
| ---------------- | ----------------- | ------------------ |
| `YES`            | `all`             | `management` token |

### Parameters

- `:method_name` `(string: <required>)` - Specifies the name of the ACL auth
  method. This is specified as part of the path.

### Sample request

```shell-session
$ curl \
    --header "X-Nomad-Token: <NOMAD_TOKEN_SECRET_ID>" \
    https://localhost:4646/v1/acl/auth-method/example-acl-auth-method
```

### Sample response

```json
{
    "MaxTokenTTL": "1h0m0s",
    "Name": "example-acl-auth-method",
    "Type": "OIDC",
    "TokenLocality": "global",
    "TokenNameFormat": "${auth_method_type}-${value.user}",
    "Default": true,
    "Config": {
      "OIDCDiscoveryURL": "https://my-corp-app-name.auth0.com/",
      "OIDCClientID": "V1RPi2MYptMV1RPi2MYptMV1RPi2MYpt",
      "OIDCClientSecret": "example-client-secret",
      "OIDCScopes": [
        "groups"
      ],
      "BoundAudiences": [
        "V1RPi2MYptMV1RPi2MYptMV1RPi2MYpt"
      ],
      "AllowedRedirectURIs": [
        "http://localhost:4646/oidc/callback"
      ],
      "ClaimMappings": {
        "http://example.com/first_name": "first_name",
        "http://example.com/last_name": "last_name"
      },
      "ListClaimMappings": {
        "http://nomad.com/groups": "groups"
      }
    },
    "CreateTime": "2022-12-08T11:04:43.46206Z",
    "ModifyTime": "2022-12-08T11:04:43.46206Z",
    "CreateIndex": 12,
    "ModifyIndex": 32
}
```

## Delete auth method

This endpoint deletes the ACL auth method as identified by its name. This
request is always forwarded to the authoritative region.

| Method   | Path                            | Produces       |
| -------- | ------------------------------- | -------------- |
| `DELETE` | `/acl/auth-method/:method_name` | `(empty body)` |

The table below shows this endpoint's support for
[blocking queries](/nomad/api-docs#blocking-queries) and
[required ACLs](/nomad/api-docs#acls).

| Blocking Queries | ACL Required |
| ---------------- | ------------ |
| `NO`             | `management` |

### Parameters

- `method_name` `(string: <required>)` - Specifies the name of auth method to
  delete and is specified as part of the path.

### Sample Request

```shell-session
$ curl \
    --request DELETE \
    --header "X-Nomad-Token: <NOMAD_TOKEN_SECRET_ID>" \
    https://localhost:4646/v1/acl/auth-method/example-acl-auth-method
```
