website/content/docs/integrations/consul-integration.mdx, before:

---
layout: docs
page_title: Consul Integration
description: Learn how to integrate Nomad with Consul and add service discovery to jobs
---

# Consul Integration

[Consul][] is a tool for discovering and configuring services in your
infrastructure. Consul's key features include service discovery, health checking,
a KV store, and robust support for multi-datacenter deployments. Nomad's integration
with Consul enables automatic clustering, built-in service registration, and
dynamic rendering of configuration files and environment variables. The sections
below describe the integration in more detail.

## Configuration

In order to use Consul with Nomad, you will need to configure and install Consul
on your nodes alongside Nomad, or schedule it as a system job. Nomad does not
run Consul for you.

To enable Consul integration, please refer to the [Nomad agent Consul
configuration][] documentation.

## Automatic Clustering with Consul

Nomad servers and clients will be automatically informed of each other's
existence when a running Consul cluster already exists and the Consul agent is
installed and configured on each host. Please refer to the [Automatic Clustering
with Consul][] guide for more information.

## Service Discovery

Nomad schedules workloads of various types across a cluster of generic hosts.
Because of this, placement is not known in advance and you will need to use
service discovery to connect tasks to other services deployed across your
cluster. Nomad integrates with Consul to provide service discovery and
monitoring.

To configure a job to register with service discovery, please refer to the
[`service` job specification documentation][service].

## Dynamic Configuration

Nomad's job specification includes a [`template` block][] that uses a Consul
ecosystem tool called [Consul Template][]. This mechanism creates a convenient
way to ship configuration files that are populated from environment variables,
Consul data, Vault secrets, or just general configurations within a Nomad task.

For more information on Nomad's template block and how it leverages Consul
Template, please see the [`template` job specification documentation][].

## Using Nomad Workload Identity with Consul

Starting in Nomad 1.7, Nomad clients will use a task or service's [Workload
Identity][] to authenticate to Consul and obtain a Consul token specific to the
service or task. When using Workload Identity you will no longer need to pass in
a Consul token to submit a job.

### Configuring Consul Authentication

Create a configuration file for a Consul [JWT Auth Method][]. The `JWKSURL`
field should point to the Nomad servers. The remaining fields are required to
match those shown here.

```json
{
  "JWKSURL": "https://nomad.example.com:4646/.well-known/jwks.json",
  "JWTSupportedAlgs": ["RS256"],
  "BoundAudiences": "consul.io",
  "ClaimMappings": {
    "nomad_namespace": "nomad_namespace",
    "nomad_job_id": "nomad_job_id",
    "nomad_task": "nomad_task",
    "nomad_service": "nomad_service"
  }
}
```

Using that configuration file, you'll create two different Consul Auth Methods:

* The first, named `nomad-services`, controls authentication for Service
  Identity tokens used to register services and configure Consul Connect. You'll
  create a binding rule for this method that maps Nomad `service` blocks to
  Consul services.

* The second, named `nomad-tasks`, controls access to reading service data and
  Consul KV for your jobs' `template` blocks. You'll create a binding rule for
  this method that maps Nomad namespaces or job IDs to Consul Roles.

#### Auth Method and Binding Rules for Services

Using the configuration file shown above, create a Consul Auth Method to support
services. Note that you should not set the `-max-token-ttl` flag for Consul Auth
Methods used for Nomad.

<Tabs>
<Tab heading="Consul Community Edition">

In Consul Community Edition, you'll always bind to the default Consul namespace.

```shell-session
$ consul acl auth-method create \
         -name 'nomad-services' \
         -type jwt \
         -description 'login method for Nomad services' \
         -format json \
         -namespace-rule-selector='' \
         -namespace-rule-bind-namespace='default' \
         -config "@consul-auth-method-config.json"
```

</Tab>
<Tab heading="Consul Enterprise">

In Consul Enterprise, you'll map a Nomad namespace to a Consul namespace.

```shell-session
$ consul acl auth-method create \
         -name 'nomad-services' \
         -type jwt \
         -description 'login method for Nomad services' \
         -format json \
         -namespace-rule-selector='' \
         -namespace-rule-bind-namespace='${value.nomad_namespace}' \
         -config "@consul-auth-method-config.json"
```

</Tab>
</Tabs>

Create a [Consul Binding Rule][] that maps the Nomad Workload Identity to the
Consul Service Identity.

```shell-session
$ consul acl binding-rule create \
         -method 'nomad-services' \
         -description 'binding rule for Nomad workload identities (WI)' \
         -bind-type service \
         -bind-name '${value.nomad_namespace}-${value.nomad_service}'
```

#### Auth Method and Binding Rules for Templates

For each Nomad namespace that you want to grant access to Consul, create a
[Consul role][] with a name like `nomad-$nomadNamespace`. For example, for the Nomad
namespace named `prod` you'll create the following Consul role.

```shell-session
$ consul acl role create \
       -name "nomad-prod" \
       -description "role for Nomad production workloads with templates" \
       -policy-name "example-policy"
```

The policy you assign to the role should have sufficient `service:read` and
`kv:read` permissions. An example policy might look like the following.

```hcl
key_prefix "" {
  policy = "read"
}

service_prefix "" {
  policy = "read"
}
```

Using the same configuration file shown above, create the Consul Auth Method to
support templates. Note that you should not set the `-max-token-ttl` flag for
Consul Auth Methods used for Nomad.

<Tabs>
<Tab heading="Consul Community Edition">

In Consul Community Edition, you'll always bind to the default Consul namespace.

```shell-session
$ consul acl auth-method create \
         -name 'nomad-tasks \
         -type jwt \
         -description 'login method for Nomad tasks and templates' \
         -format json \
         -namespace-rule-selector='' \
         -namespace-rule-bind-namespace='default' \
         -config "@consul-auth-method-config.json"
```

</Tab>
<Tab heading="Consul Enterprise">

In Consul Enterprise, you'll map a Nomad namespace to a Consul namespace.

```shell-session
$ consul acl auth-method create \
         -name 'nomad-tasks \
         -type jwt \
         -description 'login method for Nomad tasks and templates \
         -format json \
         -namespace-rule-selector='' \
         -namespace-rule-bind-namespace='${value.nomad_namespace}' \
         -config "@consul-auth-method-config.json"
```

</Tab>
</Tabs>

Next, create a Consul Binding Rule that maps Nomad namespaces to Consul Roles:

```shell-session
$ consul acl binding-rule create \
       -method 'nomad-tasks' \
       -description 'binding rule for Nomad template workload identities (WI)' \
       -bind-type role \
       -bind-name 'nomad-${value.nomad_namespace}'
```

## Authenticating Without Workload Identity (Legacy)

If [Consul ACLs][consul_acls] are enabled, the [`allow_unauthenticated`][]
configuration parameter will control whether a Consul token will be required
when submitting a job with Consul namespace configured. The provided Consul
token must belong to the correct namespace, and must be backed by a Consul ACL
Policy with sufficient `service:write` and `kv:read` permissions. An example
policy might look like the following.

```hcl
key_prefix "" {
  policy = "read"
}

service_prefix "" {
  policy = "write"
}
```

This legacy workflow will be removed in Nomad 1.9. Before upgrading to Nomad 1.9
you will need to have configured authentication with Consul as described in
[Configuring Consul Authentication](#configuring-consul-authentication).

## Migrating to Using Workload Identity with Consul

Migrating from the legacy (pre-1.7) workflow where workload use the agent's
Consul token requires configuation on your Consul cluster and your Nomad server
agents. It does not require updating your running Nomad jobs. To migrate:

* Create the Consul auth method and binding rules on your Consul cluster.
* Enable [`consul.service_identity`][] blocks in your Nomad server agent configurations.
* Enable [`consul.task_identity`][] blocks in your Nomad server agent configurations.
* (Optionally) add [`identity`][] blocks to your jobs if you want to use a
  different identity because of how your auth method and binding rules are
  configured.

Note that when using Workload Identity you will no longer need to pass in a
Consul token to submit a job.

## Consul Namespaces

Nomad provides integration with [Consul Namespaces][consul_namespaces] for
service registrations specified in `service` blocks and Consul KV reads in
`template` blocks.

By default, Nomad will not specify a Consul namespace on service registrations
or KV store reads, which Consul then implicitly resolves to the `"default"`
namespace.  This default namespace behavior can be modified by setting the
[`namespace`][consul_agent_namespace] field in the Nomad agent Consul
configuration block.

For more control over Consul namespaces, Nomad Enterprise supports configuring
the Consul [namespace][consul_jobspec_namespace] at the group or task level in
the Nomad job spec as well as the [`-consul-namespace`][consul_run_namespace]
command line argument for `job run`.

The Consul namespace used for a set of group or task service registrations
within a group, as well as `template` KV store access is determined from the
following hierarchy from lowest to highest precedence:

* Consul default: If no Consul namespace options are configured, Consul will
  automatically make use of the `"default"` namespace.

* agent configuration: If the [`namespace`][consul_agent_namespace] Nomad agent
  Consul configuration parameter is set, this namespace will be used instead of
  the Consul default.

* job run command: <EnterpriseAlert inline/> If the
  [`-consul-namespace`][consul_run_namespace] command line argument is specified
  on job submission, this namespace will take precedence over the namespace set
  in Nomad agent configuration.

* group and task configuration: <EnterpriseAlert inline/> If the group level or
  task level Consul [namespace field][consul_jobspec_namespace] is configured,
  this namespace will take precedence over all other options.

## Assumptions

* Each Nomad client should have a local Consul agent running on the same host,
  reachable by Nomad. Nomad clients should never share a Consul agent or talk
  directly to the Consul servers. Nomad is not compatible with [Consul Data
  Plane][CDP].

* The service discovery feature in Nomad depends on operators making sure that
  the Nomad client can reach the Consul agent.

* Tasks running inside Nomad also need to reach out to the Consul agent if
  they want to use any of the Consul APIs. Ex: A task running inside a docker
  container in the bridge mode won't be able to talk to a Consul Agent running
  on the loopback interface of the host since the container in the bridge mode
  has its own network interface and doesn't see interfaces on the global
  network namespace of the host. There are a couple of ways to solve this, one
  way is to run the container in the host networking mode, or make the Consul
  agent listen on an interface in the network namespace of the container.

* The `consul` binary must be present in Nomad's `$PATH` to run the Envoy
  proxy sidecar on client nodes.

* Consul service mesh using network namespaces is only supported on Linux.

## Compatibility

Most supported versions of Nomad are compatible with most recent versions of
Consul, with some exceptions.

* Nomad versions 1.6.0+, 1.5.6+, and 1.4.11+ are compatible with any currently
  supported version of Consul.
* Nomad versions 1.4.4 to 1.4.11 and 1.5.0 to 1.5.6 are compatible with any
  currently supported version of Consul except 1.13.8.
* Nomad versions 1.4.0 through 1.4.3 are compatible with Consul versions 1.13.0
  through 1.13.7, and 1.13.9. Changes to Consul service mesh in version 1.14 are
  incompatible with Nomad 1.4.3 and earlier.
* Nomad is not compatible with Consul Data Plane.

|                     | Consul 1.13.0 - 1.13.7 | Consul 1.13.8 | Consul 1.13.9 | Consul 1.14.0+ |
|---------------------|------------------------|---------------|---------------|----------------|
| Nomad 1.6.0+        | ✅                     | ✅            | ✅            | ✅             |
| Nomad 1.5.6+        | ✅                     | ✅            | ✅            | ✅             |
| Nomad 1.5.0-1.5.5   | ✅                     | ❌            | ✅            | ✅             |
| Nomad 1.4.11-1.4.13 | ✅                     | ✅            | ✅            | ✅             |
| Nomad 1.4.4-1.4.10  | ✅                     | ❌            | ✅            | ✅             |
| Nomad 1.4.0-1.4.3   | ✅                     | ❌            | ✅            | ❌             |


[Consul]: https://www.consul.io/ "Consul by HashiCorp"
[Workload Identity]: /nomad/docs/concepts/workload-identity
[Nomad agent Consul configuration]: /nomad/docs/configuration/consul
[Automatic Clustering with Consul]: /nomad/tutorials/manage-clusters/clustering
[service]: /nomad/docs/job-specification/service "Nomad service Job Specification"
[`template` block]: /nomad/docs/job-specification/template
[Consul Template]: https://github.com/hashicorp/consul-template
[`template` job specification documentation]: /nomad/docs/job-specification/template
[consul_namespaces]: /consul/docs/enterprise/namespaces
[consul_agent_namespace]: /nomad/docs/configuration/consul#namespace
[consul_jobspec_namespace]: /nomad/docs/job-specification/consul#namespace
[consul_run_namespace]: /nomad/docs/commands/job/run#consul-namespace
[`allow_unauthenticated`]: /nomad/docs/configuration/consul#allow_unauthenticated
[consul_acls]: /consul/docs/security/acl
[JWT Auth Method]: /consul/docs/security/acl/auth-methods/jwt
[Consul Binding Rule]: /consul/api-docs/acl/binding-rules
[Consul role]: /consul/docs/security/acl/acl-roles
[`consul.service_identity`]: /nomad/docs/configuration/consul#service_identity
[`consul.task_identity`]: /nomad/docs/configuration/consul#task_identity
[`identity`]: /nomad/docs/job-specification/identity
[CDP]: /consul/docs/connect/dataplane

Commit message:

docs: Vault Workload Identity integration (#18704)
Documentation updates to support the new Vault integration with Nomad Workload
Identity. Included:

* Added a large section to the Vault integration docs to explain how to set up
  auth methods, roles, and policies (by hand, assuming we don't ship a `nomad
  setup-vault` tool for now), and how to safely migrate from the existing workflow
  to the new one.
* Shuffled around some of the existing text so that the legacy authentication
  method text is in its own section.
* Added a compatibility matrix to the Vault integration page.

website/content/docs/integrations/consul-integration.mdx, after:

---
layout: docs
page_title: Consul Integration
description: Learn how to integrate Nomad with Consul and add service discovery to jobs
---

# Consul Integration

[Consul][] is a tool for discovering and configuring services in your
infrastructure. Consul's key features include service discovery, health checking,
a KV store, and robust support for multi-datacenter deployments. Nomad's integration
with Consul enables automatic clustering, built-in service registration, and
dynamic rendering of configuration files and environment variables. The sections
below describe the integration in more detail.

## Configuration

In order to use Consul with Nomad, you will need to configure and install Consul
on your nodes alongside Nomad, or schedule it as a system job. Nomad does not
run Consul for you.

To enable Consul integration, please refer to the [Nomad agent Consul
configuration][] documentation.

## Automatic Clustering with Consul

Nomad servers and clients will be automatically informed of each other's
existence when a running Consul cluster already exists and the Consul agent is
installed and configured on each host. Please refer to the [Automatic Clustering
with Consul][] guide for more information.

## Service Discovery

Nomad schedules workloads of various types across a cluster of generic hosts.
Because of this, placement is not known in advance and you will need to use
service discovery to connect tasks to other services deployed across your
cluster. Nomad integrates with Consul to provide service discovery and
monitoring.

To configure a job to register with service discovery, please refer to the
[`service` job specification documentation][service].

## Dynamic Configuration

Nomad's job specification includes a [`template` block][] that uses a Consul
ecosystem tool called [Consul Template][]. This mechanism creates a convenient
way to ship configuration files that are populated from environment variables,
Consul data, Vault secrets, or just general configurations within a Nomad task.

For more information on Nomad's template block and how it leverages Consul
Template, please see the [`template` job specification documentation][].

## Using Nomad Workload Identity with Consul

Starting in Nomad 1.7, Nomad clients will use a task or service's [Workload
Identity][] to authenticate to Consul and obtain a Consul token specific to the
service or task. When using Workload Identity you will no longer need to pass in
a Consul token to submit a job.

### Configuring Consul Authentication

Create a configuration file for a Consul [JWT Auth Method][]. The `JWKSURL`
field should point to all the Nomad servers; you should use a proxy or DNS A
Record to ensure that requests can go to any server in the cluster. The
remaining fields are required to match those shown here.

```json
{
  "JWKSURL": "https://nomad.example.com:4646/.well-known/jwks.json",
  "JWTSupportedAlgs": ["RS256"],
  "BoundAudiences": "consul.io",
  "ClaimMappings": {
    "nomad_namespace": "nomad_namespace",
    "nomad_job_id": "nomad_job_id",
    "nomad_task": "nomad_task",
    "nomad_service": "nomad_service"
  }
}
```

Using that configuration file, you'll create two different Consul Auth Methods:

* The first, named `nomad-services`, controls authentication for Service
  Identity tokens used to register services and configure Consul Connect. You'll
  create a binding rule for this method that maps Nomad `service` blocks to
  Consul services.

* The second, named `nomad-tasks`, controls access to reading service data and
  Consul KV for your jobs' `template` blocks. You'll create a binding rule for
  this method that maps Nomad namespaces or job IDs to Consul Roles.

#### Auth Method and Binding Rules for Services

Using the configuration file shown above, create a Consul Auth Method to support
services. Note that you should not set the `-max-token-ttl` flag for Consul Auth
Methods used for Nomad.

<Tabs>
<Tab heading="Consul Community Edition">

In Consul Community Edition, you'll always bind to the default Consul namespace.

```shell-session
$ consul acl auth-method create \
         -name 'nomad-services' \
         -type jwt \
         -description 'login method for Nomad services' \
         -format json \
         -namespace-rule-selector='' \
         -namespace-rule-bind-namespace='default' \
         -config "@consul-auth-method-config.json"
```

</Tab>
<Tab heading="Consul Enterprise">

In Consul Enterprise, you'll map a Nomad namespace to a Consul namespace.

```shell-session
$ consul acl auth-method create \
         -name 'nomad-services' \
         -type jwt \
         -description 'login method for Nomad services' \
         -format json \
         -namespace-rule-selector='' \
         -namespace-rule-bind-namespace='${value.nomad_namespace}' \
         -config "@consul-auth-method-config.json"
```

</Tab>
</Tabs>

Create a [Consul Binding Rule][] that maps the Nomad Workload Identity to the
Consul Service Identity.

```shell-session
$ consul acl binding-rule create \
         -method 'nomad-services' \
         -description 'binding rule for Nomad workload identities (WI)' \
         -bind-type service \
         -bind-name '${value.nomad_namespace}-${value.nomad_service}'
```

#### Auth Method and Binding Rules for Templates

For each Nomad namespace that you want to grant access to Consul, create a
[Consul role][] with a name like `nomad-$nomadNamespace`. For example, for the Nomad
namespace named `prod` you'll create the following Consul role.

```shell-session
$ consul acl role create \
       -name "nomad-prod" \
       -description "role for Nomad production workloads with templates" \
       -policy-name "example-policy"
```

The policy you assign to the role should have sufficient `service:read` and
`kv:read` permissions. An example policy might look like the following.

```hcl
key_prefix "" {
  policy = "read"
}

service_prefix "" {
  policy = "read"
}
```

Using the same configuration file shown above, create the Consul Auth Method to
support templates. Note that you should not set the `-max-token-ttl` flag for
Consul Auth Methods used for Nomad.

<Tabs>
<Tab heading="Consul Community Edition">

In Consul Community Edition, you'll always bind to the default Consul namespace.

```shell-session
$ consul acl auth-method create \
         -name 'nomad-tasks \
         -type jwt \
         -description 'login method for Nomad tasks and templates' \
         -format json \
         -namespace-rule-selector='' \
         -namespace-rule-bind-namespace='default' \
         -config "@consul-auth-method-config.json"
```

</Tab>
<Tab heading="Consul Enterprise">

In Consul Enterprise, you'll map a Nomad namespace to a Consul namespace.

```shell-session
$ consul acl auth-method create \
         -name 'nomad-tasks \
         -type jwt \
         -description 'login method for Nomad tasks and templates \
         -format json \
         -namespace-rule-selector='' \
         -namespace-rule-bind-namespace='${value.nomad_namespace}' \
         -config "@consul-auth-method-config.json"
```

</Tab>
</Tabs>

Next, create a Consul Binding Rule that maps Nomad namespaces to Consul Roles:

```shell-session
$ consul acl binding-rule create \
       -method 'nomad-tasks' \
       -description 'binding rule for Nomad template workload identities (WI)' \
       -bind-type role \
       -bind-name 'nomad-${value.nomad_namespace}'
```

## Authenticating Without Workload Identity (Legacy)

If [Consul ACLs][consul_acls] are enabled, the [`allow_unauthenticated`][]
configuration parameter will control whether a Consul token will be required
when submitting a job with Consul namespace configured. The provided Consul
token must belong to the correct namespace, and must be backed by a Consul ACL
Policy with sufficient `service:write` and `kv:read` permissions. An example
policy might look like the following.

```hcl
key_prefix "" {
  policy = "read"
}

service_prefix "" {
  policy = "write"
}
```

<Note>

This legacy workflow will be removed in Nomad 1.9. Before upgrading to Nomad 1.9
you will need to have configured authentication with Consul as described in
[Configuring Consul Authentication](#configuring-consul-authentication).

</Note>

## Migrating to Using Workload Identity with Consul

Migrating from the legacy (pre-1.7) workflow where workload use the agent's
Consul token requires configuation on your Consul cluster and your Nomad server
agents. It does not require updating your running Nomad jobs. To migrate:

* Create the Consul auth method and binding rules on your Consul cluster.
* Enable [`consul.service_identity`][] blocks in your Nomad server agent configurations.
* Enable [`consul.task_identity`][] blocks in your Nomad server agent configurations.
* (Optionally) add [`identity`][] blocks to your jobs if you want to use a
  different identity because of how your auth method and binding rules are
  configured.

Note that when using Workload Identity you will no longer need to pass in a
Consul token to submit a job.

## Consul Namespaces

Nomad provides integration with [Consul Namespaces][consul_namespaces] for
service registrations specified in `service` blocks and Consul KV reads in
`template` blocks.

By default, Nomad will not specify a Consul namespace on service registrations
or KV store reads, which Consul then implicitly resolves to the `"default"`
namespace.  This default namespace behavior can be modified by setting the
[`namespace`][consul_agent_namespace] field in the Nomad agent Consul
configuration block.

For more control over Consul namespaces, Nomad Enterprise supports configuring
the Consul [namespace][consul_jobspec_namespace] at the group or task level in
the Nomad job spec as well as the [`-consul-namespace`][consul_run_namespace]
command line argument for `job run`.

The Consul namespace used for a set of group or task service registrations
within a group, as well as `template` KV store access is determined from the
following hierarchy from lowest to highest precedence:

* Consul default: If no Consul namespace options are configured, Consul will
  automatically make use of the `"default"` namespace.

* agent configuration: If the [`namespace`][consul_agent_namespace] Nomad agent
  Consul configuration parameter is set, this namespace will be used instead of
  the Consul default.

* job run command: <EnterpriseAlert inline/> If the
  [`-consul-namespace`][consul_run_namespace] command line argument is specified
  on job submission, this namespace will take precedence over the namespace set
  in Nomad agent configuration.

* group and task configuration: <EnterpriseAlert inline/> If the group level or
  task level Consul [namespace field][consul_jobspec_namespace] is configured,
  this namespace will take precedence over all other options.

## Assumptions

* Each Nomad client should have a local Consul agent running on the same host,
  reachable by Nomad. Nomad clients should never share a Consul agent or talk
  directly to the Consul servers. Nomad is not compatible with [Consul Data
  Plane][CDP].

* The service discovery feature in Nomad depends on operators making sure that
  the Nomad client can reach the Consul agent.

* Tasks running inside Nomad also need to reach out to the Consul agent if
  they want to use any of the Consul APIs. Ex: A task running inside a docker
  container in the bridge mode won't be able to talk to a Consul Agent running
  on the loopback interface of the host since the container in the bridge mode
  has its own network interface and doesn't see interfaces on the global
  network namespace of the host. There are a couple of ways to solve this, one
  way is to run the container in the host networking mode, or make the Consul
  agent listen on an interface in the network namespace of the container.

* The `consul` binary must be present in Nomad's `$PATH` to run the Envoy
  proxy sidecar on client nodes.

* Consul service mesh using network namespaces is only supported on Linux.

## Compatibility

Most supported versions of Nomad are compatible with most recent versions of
Consul, with some exceptions.

* Nomad versions 1.6.0+, 1.5.6+, and 1.4.11+ are compatible with any currently
  supported version of Consul.
* Nomad versions 1.4.4 to 1.4.11 and 1.5.0 to 1.5.6 are compatible with any
  currently supported version of Consul except 1.13.8.
* Nomad versions 1.4.0 through 1.4.3 are compatible with Consul versions 1.13.0
  through 1.13.7, and 1.13.9. Changes to Consul service mesh in version 1.14 are
  incompatible with Nomad 1.4.3 and earlier.
* Nomad is not compatible with Consul Data Plane.

|                     | Consul 1.13.0 - 1.13.7 | Consul 1.13.8 | Consul 1.13.9 | Consul 1.14.0+ |
|---------------------|------------------------|---------------|---------------|----------------|
| Nomad 1.6.0+        | ✅                     | ✅            | ✅            | ✅             |
| Nomad 1.5.6+        | ✅                     | ✅            | ✅            | ✅             |
| Nomad 1.5.0-1.5.5   | ✅                     | ❌            | ✅            | ✅             |
| Nomad 1.4.11-1.4.13 | ✅                     | ✅            | ✅            | ✅             |
| Nomad 1.4.4-1.4.10  | ✅                     | ❌            | ✅            | ✅             |
| Nomad 1.4.0-1.4.3   | ✅                     | ❌            | ✅            | ❌             |


[Consul]: https://www.consul.io/ "Consul by HashiCorp"
[Workload Identity]: /nomad/docs/concepts/workload-identity
[Nomad agent Consul configuration]: /nomad/docs/configuration/consul
[Automatic Clustering with Consul]: /nomad/tutorials/manage-clusters/clustering
[service]: /nomad/docs/job-specification/service "Nomad service Job Specification"
[`template` block]: /nomad/docs/job-specification/template
[Consul Template]: https://github.com/hashicorp/consul-template
[`template` job specification documentation]: /nomad/docs/job-specification/template
[consul_namespaces]: /consul/docs/enterprise/namespaces
[consul_agent_namespace]: /nomad/docs/configuration/consul#namespace
[consul_jobspec_namespace]: /nomad/docs/job-specification/consul#namespace
[consul_run_namespace]: /nomad/docs/commands/job/run#consul-namespace
[`allow_unauthenticated`]: /nomad/docs/configuration/consul#allow_unauthenticated
[consul_acls]: /consul/docs/security/acl
[JWT Auth Method]: /consul/docs/security/acl/auth-methods/jwt
[Consul Binding Rule]: /consul/api-docs/acl/binding-rules
[Consul role]: /consul/docs/security/acl/acl-roles
[`consul.service_identity`]: /nomad/docs/configuration/consul#service_identity
[`consul.task_identity`]: /nomad/docs/configuration/consul#task_identity
[`identity`]: /nomad/docs/job-specification/identity
[CDP]: /consul/docs/connect/dataplane
