website/content/tools/autoscaling/plugins/target/aws-asg.mdx, before:

---
layout: docs
page_title: 'Autoscaling Plugins: AWS ASG'
description: The "aws-asg" target plugin scales an Amazon Web Services Autoscaling Group.
---

# AWS AutoScaling Group Target

The `aws-asg` target plugin allows for the scaling of the Nomad cluster clients
via manipulating [AWS AutoScaling Groups][aws_autoscaling].

## Agent Configuration Options

To use the `aws-asg` target plugin, the agent configuration needs to be
populated with the appropriate target block. Authentication to the AWS API can
be supplied in a number of ways including EC2 instance roles.

It is recommended, if possible to use the [Vault AWS Secrets
engine][vault_aws_backend] for supplying access credentials to the plugin.

Credentials should be injected into the configuration via a template rather
than as environment variables. This ensures the credentials are passed only to
the plugin, rather than being available for all plugins and the agent process.

The IAM policy required for the AWS ASG plugin to function properly is detailed
below.

```json
{
  "Version": "2012-10-17",
  "Statement": [
    {
      "Sid": "",
      "Effect": "Allow",
      "Action": [
        "autoscaling:UpdateAutoScalingGroup",
        "autoscaling:DescribeScalingActivities",
        "autoscaling:DescribeAutoScalingGroups",
        "autoscaling:CreateOrUpdateTags",
        "autoscaling:TerminateInstanceInAutoScalingGroup"
      ],
      "Resource": "*"
    }
  ]
}
```

```hcl
target "aws-asg" {
  driver = "aws-asg"
  config = {
    aws_region            = "eu-west-3"
    aws_access_key_id     = "AKIAIOSFODNN7EXAMPLE"
    aws_secret_access_key = "wJalrXUtnFEMI/K7MDENG/bPxRfiCYEXAMPLEKEY"
  }
}
```

- `aws_region` `(string: "us-east-1")` - The [AWS region][aws_region] identifier
  to connect to and where resources should be managed.

- `aws_access_key_id` `(string: "")` - The AWS access key ID used to authenticate
  with the AWS API. If empty, the IAM role attached to the EC2 instance will be
  used.

- `aws_secret_access_key` `(string: "")` - The AWS secret key ID used to authenticate
  with the AWS API. If empty, the IAM role attached to the EC2 instance will be
  used.

- `aws_session_token` `(string: "")` - The AWS session token used to authenticate
  with the AWS API.

- `aws_credential_provider` `(string: "")` - The source of AWS credentials when
  `aws_access_key_id` and `aws_secret_access_key` are not defined. If empty,
  the [standard credential chain][aws_sdk_creds] will be followed. If set to
  "ec2_role" credentials will be retrieved from the EC2 instance role.

- `retry_attempts` `(int: "15")` - The number of attempts to make while waiting
  for the cluster to stabilize after a scaling action. It may need to be tuned
  up if errors such as `failed to ensure all activities completed` occur.

### Nomad ACL

When using a Nomad cluster with ACLs enabled, the plugin will require an ACL
token which provides the following permissions:

```hcl
node {
  policy = "write"
}
```

## Policy Configuration Options

```hcl
check "hashistack-allocated-cpu" {
  # ...
  target "aws-asg" {
    aws_asg_name        = "hashistack-client-asg"
    node_class          = "hashistack"
    node_drain_deadline = "5m"
    node_purge          = "true"
  }
  # ...
}
```

- `aws_asg_name` `(string: <required>)` - The name of the AWS AutoScaling Group to
  interact with when performing scaling actions.

- `datacenter` `(string: "")` - The Nomad client [datacenter][nomad_datacenter]
  identifier used to group nodes into a pool of resource.

- `node_class` `(string: "")` - The Nomad [client node class][nomad_node_class]
  identifier used to group nodes into a pool of resource.

- `node_pool` `(string: "")` - The Nomad [client node pool][nomad_node_pool]
  identifier used to group nodes into a pool of resource.

- `node_drain_deadline` `(duration: "15m")` The Nomad [drain
  deadline][nomad_node_drain_deadline] to use when performing node draining
  actions. **Note that the default value for this setting differs from Nomad's
  default of 1h.**

- `node_drain_ignore_system_jobs` `(bool: "false")` A boolean flag used to
  control if system jobs should be stopped when performing node draining
  actions.

- `node_purge` `(bool: "false")` A boolean flag to determine whether Nomad
  clients should be [purged][nomad_node_purge] when performing scale in
  actions.

- `node_selector_strategy` `(string: "least_busy")` The strategy to use when
  selecting nodes for termination. Refer to the [node selector
  strategy][node_selector_strategy] documentation for more information.

[aws_autoscaling]: https://aws.amazon.com/autoscaling/
[aws_region]: https://aws.amazon.com/about-aws/global-infrastructure/regions_az/
[nomad_datacenter]: /nomad/docs/configuration#datacenter
[nomad_node_class]: /nomad/docs/configuration/client#node_class
[nomad_node_pool]: /nomad/docs/configuration/client#node_pool
[nomad_node_drain_deadline]: /nomad/api-docs/nodes#deadline
[nomad_node_purge]: /nomad/api-docs/nodes#purge-node
[node_selector_strategy]: /nomad/tools/autoscaling/internals/node-selector-strategy
[vault_aws_backend]: /vault/docs/secrets/aws

Commit message:

docs: add `scale_in_protection` to AWS Autoscaler (#19546)
Document new `scale_in_protection` configuration of the AWS ASG
Autoscaler target plugin.

website/content/tools/autoscaling/plugins/target/aws-asg.mdx, after:

---
layout: docs
page_title: 'Autoscaling Plugins: AWS ASG'
description: The "aws-asg" target plugin scales an Amazon Web Services Autoscaling Group.
---

# AWS AutoScaling Group Target

The `aws-asg` target plugin allows for the scaling of the Nomad cluster clients
via manipulating [AWS AutoScaling Groups][aws_autoscaling].

## Agent Configuration Options

To use the `aws-asg` target plugin, the agent configuration needs to be
populated with the appropriate target block. Authentication to the AWS API can
be supplied in a number of ways including EC2 instance roles.

It is recommended, if possible to use the [Vault AWS Secrets
engine][vault_aws_backend] for supplying access credentials to the plugin.

Credentials should be injected into the configuration via a template rather
than as environment variables. This ensures the credentials are passed only to
the plugin, rather than being available for all plugins and the agent process.

The IAM policy required for the AWS ASG plugin to function properly is detailed
below.

```json
{
  "Version": "2012-10-17",
  "Statement": [
    {
      "Sid": "",
      "Effect": "Allow",
      "Action": [
        "autoscaling:UpdateAutoScalingGroup",
        "autoscaling:DescribeScalingActivities",
        "autoscaling:DescribeAutoScalingGroups",
        "autoscaling:CreateOrUpdateTags",
        "autoscaling:TerminateInstanceInAutoScalingGroup"
      ],
      "Resource": "*"
    }
  ]
}
```

```hcl
target "aws-asg" {
  driver = "aws-asg"
  config = {
    aws_region            = "eu-west-3"
    aws_access_key_id     = "AKIAIOSFODNN7EXAMPLE"
    aws_secret_access_key = "wJalrXUtnFEMI/K7MDENG/bPxRfiCYEXAMPLEKEY"
  }
}
```

- `aws_region` `(string: "us-east-1")` - The [AWS region][aws_region] identifier
  to connect to and where resources should be managed.

- `aws_access_key_id` `(string: "")` - The AWS access key ID used to authenticate
  with the AWS API. If empty, the IAM role attached to the EC2 instance will be
  used.

- `aws_secret_access_key` `(string: "")` - The AWS secret key ID used to authenticate
  with the AWS API. If empty, the IAM role attached to the EC2 instance will be
  used.

- `aws_session_token` `(string: "")` - The AWS session token used to authenticate
  with the AWS API.

- `aws_credential_provider` `(string: "")` - The source of AWS credentials when
  `aws_access_key_id` and `aws_secret_access_key` are not defined. If empty,
  the [standard credential chain][aws_sdk_creds] will be followed. If set to
  "ec2_role" credentials will be retrieved from the EC2 instance role.

- `retry_attempts` `(int: "15")` - The number of attempts to make while waiting
  for the cluster to stabilize after a scaling action. It may need to be tuned
  up if errors such as `failed to ensure all activities completed` occur.

- `scale_in_protection` `(bool: false)` - If `true`, instances marked with
  [scale-in protection][aws_scale_in_protection] are not considered for
  removal. It may be overridden per policy.

### Nomad ACL

When using a Nomad cluster with ACLs enabled, the plugin will require an ACL
token which provides the following permissions:

```hcl
node {
  policy = "write"
}
```

## Policy Configuration Options

```hcl
check "hashistack-allocated-cpu" {
  # ...
  target "aws-asg" {
    aws_asg_name        = "hashistack-client-asg"
    node_class          = "hashistack"
    node_drain_deadline = "5m"
    node_purge          = "true"
  }
  # ...
}
```

- `aws_asg_name` `(string: <required>)` - The name of the AWS AutoScaling Group to
  interact with when performing scaling actions.

- `datacenter` `(string: "")` - The Nomad client [datacenter][nomad_datacenter]
  identifier used to group nodes into a pool of resource.

- `node_class` `(string: "")` - The Nomad [client node class][nomad_node_class]
  identifier used to group nodes into a pool of resource.

- `node_pool` `(string: "")` - The Nomad [client node pool][nomad_node_pool]
  identifier used to group nodes into a pool of resource.

- `node_drain_deadline` `(duration: "15m")` The Nomad [drain
  deadline][nomad_node_drain_deadline] to use when performing node draining
  actions. **Note that the default value for this setting differs from Nomad's
  default of 1h.**

- `node_drain_ignore_system_jobs` `(bool: "false")` A boolean flag used to
  control if system jobs should be stopped when performing node draining
  actions.

- `node_purge` `(bool: "false")` A boolean flag to determine whether Nomad
  clients should be [purged][nomad_node_purge] when performing scale in
  actions.

- `node_selector_strategy` `(string: "least_busy")` The strategy to use when
  selecting nodes for termination. Refer to the [node selector
  strategy][node_selector_strategy] documentation for more information.

- `scale_in_protection` `(bool: false)` - If `true`, instances marked with
  [scale-in protection][aws_scale_in_protection] are not considered for
  removal. If set, it overrides the plugin configuration.

[aws_autoscaling]: https://aws.amazon.com/autoscaling/
[aws_region]: https://aws.amazon.com/about-aws/global-infrastructure/regions_az/
[aws_scale_in_protection]: https://docs.aws.amazon.com/autoscaling/ec2/userguide/ec2-auto-scaling-instance-protection.html
[nomad_datacenter]: /nomad/docs/configuration#datacenter
[nomad_node_class]: /nomad/docs/configuration/client#node_class
[nomad_node_pool]: /nomad/docs/configuration/client#node_pool
[nomad_node_drain_deadline]: /nomad/api-docs/nodes#deadline
[nomad_node_purge]: /nomad/api-docs/nodes#purge-node
[node_selector_strategy]: /nomad/tools/autoscaling/internals/node-selector-strategy
[vault_aws_backend]: /vault/docs/secrets/aws
