---
layout: docs
page_title: 1.9.x
description: >-
  Nomad release notes for Nomad version 1.9.x
---

# Nomad 1.9.0

We are pleased to announce the following Nomad updates.

## Release highlights

- **Multi-Instance GPU (MIG) support added to the NVIDIA device driver**: This
enhances Nomadâ€™s ability to schedule workloads across your NVIDIA hardware and
make full use of your GPU investment. The device driver automatically detects
MIGs. Refer to the [NVIDIA driver docs](/nomad/plugins/devices/nvidia) for
details.

- **Quotas for device resources (Enterprise)**: This release extends quotas to
allow limiting [device resources](/nomad/docs/job-specification/device). Refer
to [Resource quotas]() for configuration details.

- **NUMA awareness for device resources (Enterprise)**: Nomad is able to
  correlate CPU cores with memory nodes and assign tasks to run on specific CPU
  cores so as to minimize any cross-memory node access patterns. With Nomad 1.9,
  we are expanding this functionality to also correlate
  [devices](/nomad/docs/concepts/plugins/devices) to memory nodes and enable
  NUMA-aware scheduling to take device associativity into account when making
  scheduling decisions. Refer to [numa
  Block](/nomad/docs/job-specification/numa) for configuration details.

- **Golden job versions**: This feature introduces a way to preserve and compare
  historical versions of a job. Prior to this, any change to a job would push
  older versions into garbage collection. Now, you can tag a version to save it
  from garbage collection. Additionally, you can compare job versions by tag
  name and revert by tag name. Refer to [Job
  versions](/nomad/docs/concepts/job.mdx#job-versions) for details and links to
  how to use job version tagging.

- **Virt task driver (beta)**: The new Virt task driver uses
  [libvirt](https://libvirt.org/) to manage virtual machines created by KVM,
  Xen, VMware ESXi, QEMU, and other virtualization technologies. Using this
  driver, you can perform the following:

  - Start and stop a virtual machine and run a process on it.
  - Assign a workload identity to the running task inside the virtual machine.
  - Pass configuration values from Vault or other services using consul-template.
  - Mount host directories into virtual machines to procure the allocation and task directories inside them.
  - Configure port forwarding from the Nomad node to the virtual machine.
  - Access the running task through the task API.

  Refer to the [Virt driver docs](/nomad/plugins/drivers/virt) for installation and usage guides.

- **Exec2 Task Driver (GA):** The `exec2` driver is used to execute a command
for a task. It offers a security model optimized for running 'ordinary'
processes with very low startup times and minimal overhead in terms of CPU,
disk, and memory utilization. The `exec2` driver leverages kernel features such
as the Landlock LSM, cgroups v2, and the unshare system utility. Due these
enhancements, tasks no longer require leveraging filesystem isolation based on
chroot, which provide an enhanced security profile and improved performance for
the Nomad operator. Refer to [Exec2 Task Driver](/nomad/plugins/drivers/exec2)
for more details.

- **Improved IPv6 support**: Nomad has improved support for Nomad's IPv6
capabilities. We have tested and resolved some known issues with
server-to-server and server-to-client communications. Additionally we have
tested the Nomad CLI and UI service integrations with Consul and Vault, workload
identity, service registration, host networking, bridge networking, and the
Docker driver. More work will likely need to be done with IPv6 support as we
explore integrations with Consul service mesh.


## What's deprecated

N/A

## What's removed

- Support for HCLv1 job specifications and the `-hcl1` flag on `nomad job run` and other commands. Refer to [GH-20195](https://github.com/hashicorp/nomad/issues/20195) for more details.

- Support for Nomad client agents older than v1.6.0. Older nodes will fail heartbeats. Nomad servers will mark the workloads on Nomad client agents older than 1.6.0 as lost and reschedule them normally according to the job's [reschedule](/nomad/docs/job-specification/reschedule) block.

- The [LXC task driver](https://github.com/hashicorp/nomad-driver-lxc) and [ECS
  task driver](https://github.com/hashicorp/nomad-driver-ecs) projects have been
  archived with the release of Nomad 1.9 and are no longer supported.  Both
  plug-ins are maintained separately from the Nomad core project and are not
  subject to the LTS program.

- Nomad has removed the `tls_prefer_server_cipher_suites` agent configuration from the [`tls` block](/nomad/docs/configuration/tls).


## Upgrading

For more detailed information, please refer to the [upgrade details
page](/nomad/docs/upgrade/upgrade-specific#nomad-1-9-0) and the changelogs.

## Known issues

None.

## Changelogs

The changelogs for this major release version and any maintenance versions are
listed below.

<Note> These links take you to the changelogs on the GitHub website. </Note>

- [1.9.0](https://github.com/hashicorp/nomad/releases/tag/v1.9.0)
