website/content/docs/enterprise/index.mdx, before:

---
layout: docs
page_title: Nomad Enterprise
description: >-
  Nomad Enterprise adds operations, collaboration, and governance capabilities
  to Nomad.

  Features include Resource Quotas, Sentinel Policies, and Advanced Autopilot.
---

# Nomad Enterprise

Nomad Enterprise adds collaboration, operational, and governance capabilities
to Nomad. Nomad Enterprise is available as a base Platform package with an
optional Governance & Policy add-on module.

Please navigate the sub-sections for more information about each package and
its features in detail.

~> **Note:** A Nomad Enterprise cluster cannot be downgraded to the open
source version of Nomad. Servers running the open source version of Nomad will
panic if they are joined to a Nomad Enterprise cluster. See issue [gh-9958]
for more details.

## Nomad Enterprise Platform

Nomad Enterprise Platform enables operators to easily upgrade Nomad as well as
enhances performance and availability through Advanced Autopilot features such
as Automated Upgrades, Enhanced Read Scalability, and Redundancy Zones.

### Automated Upgrades

Automated Upgrades allows operators to deploy a complete cluster of new
servers and then simply wait for the upgrade to complete. As the new servers
join the cluster, server logic checks the version of each Nomad server
node. If the version is higher than the version on the current set of voters,
it will avoid promoting the new servers to voters until the number of new
servers matches the number of existing servers at the previous version. Once
the numbers match, Nomad will begin to promote new servers and demote old
ones.

See the [Autopilot - Upgrade
Migrations](/nomad/tutorials/manage-clusters/autopilot#upgrade-migrations)
documentation for a thorough overview.

### Automated Backups

Automated Backups allows operators to run the snapshot agent as a long-running
daemon process or in a one-shot mode from a batch job. The agent takes
snapshots of the state of the Nomad servers and saves them locally, or pushes
them to an optional remote storage service, such as Amazon S3.

This capability provides an enterprise solution for backup and restoring the
state of Nomad servers within an environment in an automated manner. These
snapshots are atomic and point-in-time.

See the [Operator Snapshot agent](/nomad/docs/commands/operator/snapshot/agent)
documentation for a thorough overview.

### Enhanced Read Scalability

This feature enables an operator to introduce non-voting server nodes to a
Nomad cluster. Non-voting servers will receive the replication stream but will
not take part in quorum (required by the leader before log entries can be
committed). Adding explicit non-voters will scale reads and scheduling without
impacting write latency.

See the [Autopilot - Read
Scalability](/nomad/tutorials/manage-clusters/autopilot#server-read-and-scheduling-scaling)
documentation for a thorough overview.

### Redundancy Zones

Redundancy Zones enables an operator to deploy a non-voting server as a hot
standby server on a per availability zone basis. For example, in an
environment with three availability zones an operator can run one voter and
one non-voter in each availability zone, for a total of six servers. If an
availability zone is completely lost, only one voter will be lost, so the
cluster remains available. If a voter is lost in an availability zone, Nomad
will promote the non-voter to a voter automatically, putting the hot standby
server into service quickly.

See the [Autopilot - Redundancy
Zones](/nomad/tutorials/manage-clusters/autopilot#redundancy-zones)
documentation for a thorough overview.

### Multiple Vault Namespaces

Multi-Vault Namespaces enables an operator to configure a single Nomad cluster
to support multiple Vault Namespaces for topology simplicity and fleet
consolidation when running Nomad and Vault together. Nomad will automatically
retrieve a Vault token based on a job's defined Vault Namespace and make it
available for the specified Nomad task at hand.

See the [Vault Integration documentation](/nomad/docs/integrations/vault-integration#enterprise-configuration) for more information.

## Governance & Policy

Governance & Policy features are part of an add-on module that enables an
organization to securely operate Nomad at scale across multiple teams through
features such as Audit Logging, Resource Quotas, and Sentinel Policies.

### Audit Logging

Secure clusters with enhanced risk management and operational traceability to
fulfill compliance requirements. This Enterprise feature provides
administrators with a complete set of records for all user-issued actions in
Nomad.

With Audit Logging, enterprises can now proactively identify access anomalies,
ensure enforcement of their security policies, and diagnose cluster behavior
by viewing preceding user operations. Designed as an HTTP API based audit
logging system, each audit event is captured with relevant request and
response information in a JSON format that is easily digestible and familiar
to operators.

See the [Audit Logging Documentation](/nomad/docs/configuration/audit) for a
thorough overview.

### Resource Quotas

Resource Quotas enable an operator to limit resource consumption across teams
or projects to reduce waste and align budgets. In Nomad Enterprise, operators
can define quota specifications and apply them to namespaces. When a quota is
attached to a namespace, the jobs within the namespace may not consume more
resources than the quota specification allows.

This allows operators to partition a shared cluster and ensure that no single
actor can consume the whole resources of the cluster.

See the [Resource Quotas
Guide](/nomad/tutorials/governance-and-policy/quotas) for a thorough
overview.

### Sentinel Policies

In Nomad Enterprise, operators can create Sentinel policies for fine-grained
policy enforcement. Sentinel policies build on top of the ACL system and allow
operators to define policies such as disallowing jobs to be submitted to
production on Fridays or only allowing users to run jobs that use
pre-authorized Docker images. Sentinel policies are defined as code, giving
operators considerable flexibility to meet compliance requirements.

See the [Sentinel Policies
Guide](/nomad/tutorials/governance-and-policy/sentinel) for a thorough
overview.

## Multi-Cluster & Efficiency

Multi-Cluster & Efficiency features are part of an add-on module that enables
an organization to operate Nomad at scale across multiple clusters through
features such as Multiregion Deployments.

### Multiregion Deployments

[Multiregion Deployments] enable an operator to deploy a single job to multiple
federated regions. This includes the ability to control the order of rollouts
and how each region will behave in the event of a deployment failure.

### Dynamic Application Sizing

Dynamic Application Sizing enables organizations to optimize the resource
consumption of applications using sizing recommendations from Nomad. This
feature builds on Nomad [autoscaling capabilities] to remove the trial-and-error
routine of manually setting resource requirements. DAS comprises support for
vertical [scaling policies], a new API and UI for reviewing recommended job
changes, and a collection of Nomad Autoscaler plugins informed by best-practice
statistical measures.

## Try Nomad Enterprise

Click [here](https://www.hashicorp.com/go/nomad-enterprise) to set up a demo or
request a trial of Nomad Enterprise.

[multiregion deployments]: /nomad/docs/job-specification/multiregion
[autoscaling capabilities]: /nomad/tools/autoscaling
[scaling policies]: /nomad/tools/autoscaling/policy
[gh-9958]: https://github.com/hashicorp/nomad/issues/9958

Commit message:

Backport of docs: expand on Sentinel policy reference into release/1.5.x #19357
Co-authored-by: Tim Gross <tgross@hashicorp.com>

website/content/docs/enterprise/index.mdx, after:

---
layout: docs
page_title: Nomad Enterprise
description: >-
  Nomad Enterprise adds operations, collaboration, and governance capabilities
  to Nomad.

  Features include Resource Quotas, Sentinel Policies, and Advanced Autopilot.
---

# Nomad Enterprise

Nomad Enterprise adds collaboration, operational, and governance capabilities
to Nomad. Nomad Enterprise is available as a base Platform package with an
optional Governance & Policy add-on module.

Please navigate the sub-sections for more information about each package and
its features in detail.

~> **Note:** A Nomad Enterprise cluster cannot be downgraded to the open
source version of Nomad. Servers running the open source version of Nomad will
panic if they are joined to a Nomad Enterprise cluster. See issue [gh-9958]
for more details.

## Nomad Enterprise Platform

Nomad Enterprise Platform enables operators to easily upgrade Nomad as well as
enhances performance and availability through Advanced Autopilot features such
as Automated Upgrades, Enhanced Read Scalability, and Redundancy Zones.

### Automated Upgrades

Automated Upgrades allows operators to deploy a complete cluster of new
servers and then simply wait for the upgrade to complete. As the new servers
join the cluster, server logic checks the version of each Nomad server
node. If the version is higher than the version on the current set of voters,
it will avoid promoting the new servers to voters until the number of new
servers matches the number of existing servers at the previous version. Once
the numbers match, Nomad will begin to promote new servers and demote old
ones.

See the [Autopilot - Upgrade
Migrations](/nomad/tutorials/manage-clusters/autopilot#upgrade-migrations)
documentation for a thorough overview.

### Automated Backups

Automated Backups allows operators to run the snapshot agent as a long-running
daemon process or in a one-shot mode from a batch job. The agent takes
snapshots of the state of the Nomad servers and saves them locally, or pushes
them to an optional remote storage service, such as Amazon S3.

This capability provides an enterprise solution for backup and restoring the
state of Nomad servers within an environment in an automated manner. These
snapshots are atomic and point-in-time.

See the [Operator Snapshot agent](/nomad/docs/commands/operator/snapshot/agent)
documentation for a thorough overview.

### Enhanced Read Scalability

This feature enables an operator to introduce non-voting server nodes to a
Nomad cluster. Non-voting servers will receive the replication stream but will
not take part in quorum (required by the leader before log entries can be
committed). Adding explicit non-voters will scale reads and scheduling without
impacting write latency.

See the [Autopilot - Read
Scalability](/nomad/tutorials/manage-clusters/autopilot#server-read-and-scheduling-scaling)
documentation for a thorough overview.

### Redundancy Zones

Redundancy Zones enables an operator to deploy a non-voting server as a hot
standby server on a per availability zone basis. For example, in an
environment with three availability zones an operator can run one voter and
one non-voter in each availability zone, for a total of six servers. If an
availability zone is completely lost, only one voter will be lost, so the
cluster remains available. If a voter is lost in an availability zone, Nomad
will promote the non-voter to a voter automatically, putting the hot standby
server into service quickly.

See the [Autopilot - Redundancy
Zones](/nomad/tutorials/manage-clusters/autopilot#redundancy-zones)
documentation for a thorough overview.

### Multiple Vault Namespaces

Multi-Vault Namespaces enables an operator to configure a single Nomad cluster
to support multiple Vault Namespaces for topology simplicity and fleet
consolidation when running Nomad and Vault together. Nomad will automatically
retrieve a Vault token based on a job's defined Vault Namespace and make it
available for the specified Nomad task at hand.

See the [Vault Integration documentation](/nomad/docs/integrations/vault-integration#enterprise-configuration) for more information.

## Governance & Policy

Governance & Policy features are part of an add-on module that enables an
organization to securely operate Nomad at scale across multiple teams through
features such as Audit Logging, Resource Quotas, and Sentinel Policies.

### Audit Logging

Secure clusters with enhanced risk management and operational traceability to
fulfill compliance requirements. This Enterprise feature provides
administrators with a complete set of records for all user-issued actions in
Nomad.

With Audit Logging, enterprises can now proactively identify access anomalies,
ensure enforcement of their security policies, and diagnose cluster behavior
by viewing preceding user operations. Designed as an HTTP API based audit
logging system, each audit event is captured with relevant request and
response information in a JSON format that is easily digestible and familiar
to operators.

See the [Audit Logging Documentation](/nomad/docs/configuration/audit) for a
thorough overview.

### Resource Quotas

Resource Quotas enable an operator to limit resource consumption across teams
or projects to reduce waste and align budgets. In Nomad Enterprise, operators
can define quota specifications and apply them to namespaces. When a quota is
attached to a namespace, the jobs within the namespace may not consume more
resources than the quota specification allows.

This allows operators to partition a shared cluster and ensure that no single
actor can consume the whole resources of the cluster.

See the [Resource Quotas
Guide](/nomad/tutorials/governance-and-policy/quotas) for a thorough
overview.

### Sentinel Policies

In Nomad Enterprise, operators can create Sentinel policies for fine-grained
policy enforcement. Sentinel policies build on top of the ACL system and allow
operators to define policies such as disallowing jobs to be submitted to
production on Fridays or only allowing users to run jobs that use
pre-authorized Docker images. Sentinel policies are defined as code, giving
operators considerable flexibility to meet compliance requirements.

See the [Sentinel Policies Guide][] for a walk-through on deploying Sentinel
policies and the [Nomad Sentinel policy reference][] for more information on
what objects are available for policies.

## Multi-Cluster & Efficiency

Multi-Cluster & Efficiency features are part of an add-on module that enables
an organization to operate Nomad at scale across multiple clusters through
features such as Multiregion Deployments.

### Multiregion Deployments

[Multiregion Deployments] enable an operator to deploy a single job to multiple
federated regions. This includes the ability to control the order of rollouts
and how each region will behave in the event of a deployment failure.

### Dynamic Application Sizing

Dynamic Application Sizing enables organizations to optimize the resource
consumption of applications using sizing recommendations from Nomad. This
feature builds on Nomad [autoscaling capabilities] to remove the trial-and-error
routine of manually setting resource requirements. DAS comprises support for
vertical [scaling policies], a new API and UI for reviewing recommended job
changes, and a collection of Nomad Autoscaler plugins informed by best-practice
statistical measures.

## Try Nomad Enterprise

Click [here](https://www.hashicorp.com/go/nomad-enterprise) to set up a demo or
request a trial of Nomad Enterprise.

[multiregion deployments]: /nomad/docs/job-specification/multiregion
[autoscaling capabilities]: /nomad/tools/autoscaling
[scaling policies]: /nomad/tools/autoscaling/policy
[gh-9958]: https://github.com/hashicorp/nomad/issues/9958
[Sentinel Policies Guide]: /nomad/tutorials/governance-and-policy/sentinel
[Nomad Sentinel policy reference]: /nomad/docs/enterprise/sentinel
