website/content/docs/commands/operator/debug.mdx, before:

---
layout: docs
page_title: 'Commands: operator debug'
description: |
  Build an archive of debug data.
---

# Command: operator debug

The `operator debug` command builds an archive containing Nomad cluster
configuration and state information, Nomad server and client node
logs, and pprof profiles from the selected servers and client nodes.

If no selection option is specified, the debug archive contains only
cluster meta information.

## Usage

```plaintext
nomad operator debug [options]
```

This command accepts comma separated `server-id` and `node-id` IDs for
monitoring and pprof profiling. If IDs are provided, the command will
monitor logs for the `duration`, saving a snapshot of Nomad state
every `interval`. Captured logs and configurations are subjected to
redaction, but may still contain sensitive information and the archive
contents should be reviewed before sharing.

If an `output` path is provided, `debug` will create a timestamped
directory in that path instead of an archive. By default, the command
creates a compressed tar archive in the current directory.

Consul and Vault status and version information are included if
configured.

If ACLs are enabled, this command will require a token with the 'node:read'
capability to run. In order to collect information, the token will also
require the 'agent:read' and 'operator:read' capabilities, as well as the
'list-jobs' capability for all namespaces. To collect pprof profiles the
token will also require 'agent:write', or enable_debug configuration set to
true.

## General Options

@include 'general_options.mdx'

## Debug Options

- `-duration=2m`: Set the duration of the debug capture. Logs will be captured from
  specified servers and nodes at `log-level`. Defaults to `2m`.

- `-interval=30s`: The interval between snapshots of the Nomad state.
  If unspecified, only one snapshot is captured. Defaults to `30s`.

- `-log-level=DEBUG`: The log level to monitor. Defaults to `DEBUG`.

- `-max-nodes=<count>`: Cap the maximum number of client nodes included
  in the capture. Defaults to 10, set to 0 for unlimited.

- `-node-class=<node-class>`: Filter client nodes based on node class.

- `-node-id=<node1>,<node2>`: Comma separated list of Nomad client node ids
  to monitor for logs, API outputs, and pprof profiles. Accepts id prefixes, and
  "all" to select all nodes (up to count = max-nodes). Defaults to `all`.

- `-pprof-duration=<duration>`: Duration for pprof
  collection. Defaults to 1s or `-duration`, whichever is less.

- `-pprof-interval=<pprof-interval>`: The interval between pprof
    collections. Set interval equal to duration to capture a single
    snapshot. Defaults to 250ms or `-pprof-duration`, whichever is
    less.

- `-server-id=<server1>,<server2>`: Comma separated list of Nomad server names to
  monitor for logs, API outputs, and pprof profiles. Accepts server names, "leader", or
  "all". Defaults to `all`.

- `-stale=<true|false>`: If "false", the default, get membership data from the
  cluster leader. If the cluster is in an outage unable to establish
  leadership, it may be necessary to get the configuration from a non-leader
  server.

- `-event-topic=<allocation,evaluation,job,node,*>:<filter>`: Enable event
  stream capture. Filter by comma delimited list of topic filters or "all".
  Defaults to "none" (disabled).  Refer to the [Events API](/nomad/api-docs/events) for
  additional detail.

- `-verbose`: Enable verbose output

- `-output=path`: Path to the parent directory of the output
  directory. Defaults to the current directory. If specified, no
  archive is built.

- `-consul-http-addr=<addr>`: The address and port of the Consul HTTP
  agent. Overrides the `CONSUL_HTTP_ADDR` environment variable.

- `-consul-token=<token>`: Token used to query Consul. Overrides the
  `CONSUL_HTTP_TOKEN` environment variable and the Consul token
  file.

- `-consul-token-file=<path>`: Path to the Consul token file. Overrides the `CONSUL_HTTP_TOKEN_FILE`
  environment variable.

- `-consul-client-cert=<path>`: Path to the Consul client cert file. Overrides the `CONSUL_CLIENT_CERT`
  environment variable.

- `-consul-client-key=<path>`: Path to the Consul client key file. Overrides the `CONSUL_CLIENT_KEY`
  environment variable.

- `-consul-ca-cert=<path>`: Path to a CA file to use with Consul. Overrides the `CONSUL_CACERT`
  environment variable and the Consul CA path.

- `-consul-ca-path=<path>`: Path to a directory of PEM encoded CA cert files to verify the Consul
  certificate. Overrides the `CONSUL_CAPATH` environment variable.

- `-vault-address=<addr>`: The address and port of the Vault HTTP agent. Overrides the `VAULT_ADDR`
  environment variable.

- `-vault-token=<token>`: Token used to query Vault. Overrides the `VAULT_TOKEN` environment
  variable.

- `-vault-client-cert=<path>`: Path to the Vault client cert file. Overrides the `VAULT_CLIENT_CERT`
  environment variable.

- `-vault-client-key=<path>`: Path to the Vault client key file. Overrides the `VAULT_CLIENT_KEY`
  environment variable.

- `-vault-ca-cert=<path>`: Path to a CA file to use with Vault. Overrides the `VAULT_CACERT`
  environment variable and the Vault CA path.

- `-vault-ca-path=<path>`: Path to a directory of PEM encoded CA cert files to verify the Vault
  certificate. Overrides the `VAULT_CAPATH` environment variable.

## Output

This command prints a summary of the capture and the name of the timestamped
archive file produced.

## Examples

```shell-session
$ nomad operator debug -duration 5s -interval 5s -server-id all -node-id b5,20
Starting debugger...

          Servers: (3/3) [server1.global server2.global server3.global]
          Clients: (2/3) [b547cd3a-085f-68c2-55f4-e99beebb0433 20c0964b-72cc-4083-87fe-ec6905b6230a]
         Interval: 5s
         Duration: 5s

Capturing cluster data...
    Capture interval 0000
    Capture interval 0001
    Capture interval 0002
    Capture interval 0003
Created debug archive: nomad-debug-2020-12-08-034455Z.tar.gz
```

```shell-session
$ nomad operator debug -duration 5s -interval 5s -server-id all -node-id all -max-nodes=1
Starting debugger...

          Servers: (3/3) [server1.global server2.global server3.global]
          Clients: (1/3) [b547cd3a-085f-68c2-55f4-e99beebb0433]
                   Max node count reached (1)
         Interval: 5s
         Duration: 5s

Capturing cluster data...
    Capture interval 0000
    Capture interval 0001
    Capture interval 0002
    Capture interval 0003
Created debug archive: nomad-debug-2020-12-08-034113Z.tar.gz
```

Commit message:

docs: add detail about log location monitor and operator debug.

website/content/docs/commands/operator/debug.mdx, after:

---
layout: docs
page_title: 'Commands: operator debug'
description: |
  Build an archive of debug data.
---

# Command: operator debug

The `operator debug` command builds an archive containing Nomad cluster
configuration and state information, Nomad server and client node
logs, and pprof profiles from the selected servers and client nodes.

If no selection option is specified, the debug archive contains only
cluster meta information.

## Usage

```plaintext
nomad operator debug [options]
```

This command accepts comma separated `server-id` and `node-id` IDs for
monitoring and pprof profiling. If IDs are provided, the command will
monitor logs for the `duration`, saving a snapshot of Nomad state
every `interval`. Captured logs and configurations are subjected to
redaction, but may still contain sensitive information and the archive
contents should be reviewed before sharing.

If an `output` path is provided, `debug` will create a timestamped
directory in that path instead of an archive. By default, the command
creates a compressed tar archive in the current directory.

Consul and Vault status and version information are included if
configured.

If ACLs are enabled, this command will require a token with the 'node:read'
capability to run. In order to collect information, the token will also
require the 'agent:read' and 'operator:read' capabilities, as well as the
'list-jobs' capability for all namespaces. To collect pprof profiles the
token will also require 'agent:write', or enable_debug configuration set to
true.

## General Options

@include 'general_options.mdx'

## Debug Options

- `-duration=2m`: Set the duration of the debug capture. Logs will be captured from
  specified servers and nodes at `log-level`. Defaults to `2m`.

- `-interval=30s`: The interval between snapshots of the Nomad state.
  If unspecified, only one snapshot is captured. Defaults to `30s`.

- `-log-level=DEBUG`: The log level to monitor. Defaults to `DEBUG`.

- `-log-include-location`: Include file and line information in each log line
  monitored. The default is `true`.

- `-max-nodes=<count>`: Cap the maximum number of client nodes included
  in the capture. Defaults to 10, set to 0 for unlimited.

- `-node-class=<node-class>`: Filter client nodes based on node class.

- `-node-id=<node1>,<node2>`: Comma separated list of Nomad client node ids
  to monitor for logs, API outputs, and pprof profiles. Accepts id prefixes, and
  "all" to select all nodes (up to count = max-nodes). Defaults to `all`.

- `-pprof-duration=<duration>`: Duration for pprof
  collection. Defaults to 1s or `-duration`, whichever is less.

- `-pprof-interval=<pprof-interval>`: The interval between pprof
    collections. Set interval equal to duration to capture a single
    snapshot. Defaults to 250ms or `-pprof-duration`, whichever is
    less.

- `-server-id=<server1>,<server2>`: Comma separated list of Nomad server names to
  monitor for logs, API outputs, and pprof profiles. Accepts server names, "leader", or
  "all". Defaults to `all`.

- `-stale=<true|false>`: If "false", the default, get membership data from the
  cluster leader. If the cluster is in an outage unable to establish
  leadership, it may be necessary to get the configuration from a non-leader
  server.

- `-event-topic=<allocation,evaluation,job,node,*>:<filter>`: Enable event
  stream capture. Filter by comma delimited list of topic filters or "all".
  Defaults to "none" (disabled).  Refer to the [Events API](/nomad/api-docs/events) for
  additional detail.

- `-verbose`: Enable verbose output

- `-output=path`: Path to the parent directory of the output
  directory. Defaults to the current directory. If specified, no
  archive is built.

- `-consul-http-addr=<addr>`: The address and port of the Consul HTTP
  agent. Overrides the `CONSUL_HTTP_ADDR` environment variable.

- `-consul-token=<token>`: Token used to query Consul. Overrides the
  `CONSUL_HTTP_TOKEN` environment variable and the Consul token
  file.

- `-consul-token-file=<path>`: Path to the Consul token file. Overrides the `CONSUL_HTTP_TOKEN_FILE`
  environment variable.

- `-consul-client-cert=<path>`: Path to the Consul client cert file. Overrides the `CONSUL_CLIENT_CERT`
  environment variable.

- `-consul-client-key=<path>`: Path to the Consul client key file. Overrides the `CONSUL_CLIENT_KEY`
  environment variable.

- `-consul-ca-cert=<path>`: Path to a CA file to use with Consul. Overrides the `CONSUL_CACERT`
  environment variable and the Consul CA path.

- `-consul-ca-path=<path>`: Path to a directory of PEM encoded CA cert files to verify the Consul
  certificate. Overrides the `CONSUL_CAPATH` environment variable.

- `-vault-address=<addr>`: The address and port of the Vault HTTP agent. Overrides the `VAULT_ADDR`
  environment variable.

- `-vault-token=<token>`: Token used to query Vault. Overrides the `VAULT_TOKEN` environment
  variable.

- `-vault-client-cert=<path>`: Path to the Vault client cert file. Overrides the `VAULT_CLIENT_CERT`
  environment variable.

- `-vault-client-key=<path>`: Path to the Vault client key file. Overrides the `VAULT_CLIENT_KEY`
  environment variable.

- `-vault-ca-cert=<path>`: Path to a CA file to use with Vault. Overrides the `VAULT_CACERT`
  environment variable and the Vault CA path.

- `-vault-ca-path=<path>`: Path to a directory of PEM encoded CA cert files to verify the Vault
  certificate. Overrides the `VAULT_CAPATH` environment variable.

## Output

This command prints a summary of the capture and the name of the timestamped
archive file produced.

## Examples

```shell-session
$ nomad operator debug -duration 5s -interval 5s -server-id all -node-id b5,20
Starting debugger...

          Servers: (3/3) [server1.global server2.global server3.global]
          Clients: (2/3) [b547cd3a-085f-68c2-55f4-e99beebb0433 20c0964b-72cc-4083-87fe-ec6905b6230a]
         Interval: 5s
         Duration: 5s

Capturing cluster data...
    Capture interval 0000
    Capture interval 0001
    Capture interval 0002
    Capture interval 0003
Created debug archive: nomad-debug-2020-12-08-034455Z.tar.gz
```

```shell-session
$ nomad operator debug -duration 5s -interval 5s -server-id all -node-id all -max-nodes=1
Starting debugger...

          Servers: (3/3) [server1.global server2.global server3.global]
          Clients: (1/3) [b547cd3a-085f-68c2-55f4-e99beebb0433]
                   Max node count reached (1)
         Interval: 5s
         Duration: 5s

Capturing cluster data...
    Capture interval 0000
    Capture interval 0001
    Capture interval 0002
    Capture interval 0003
Created debug archive: nomad-debug-2020-12-08-034113Z.tar.gz
```
