website/content/tools/autoscaling/plugins/apm/nomad.mdx, before:

---
layout: docs
page_title: 'Autoscaling Plugins: Nomad API'
description: The "nomad-apm" APM plugin queries the Nomad API for metrics.
---

# Nomad APM Plugin

The Nomad APM plugin allows querying the Nomad API for metric data. This provides
an immediate starting point without addition applications but comes at the price
of efficiency. When using this APM, it is advised to monitor Nomad carefully
ensuring it is not put under excessive load pressure.

~> The Nomad APM plugin should only be used when scaling based on CPU and
memory usage. For more advanced scenarios, such as scaling a cluster to
zero clients, you should use a different APM plugin.

## Agent Configuration Options

```hcl
apm "nomad-apm" {
  driver = "nomad-apm"
}
```

When using a Nomad cluster with ACLs enabled, following ACL policy will provide the appropriate
permissions for obtaining task group metrics:

```hcl
namespace "default" {
  policy       = "read"
  capabilities = ["read-job"]
}
```

In order to obtain cluster level metrics, the following ACL policy will be required:

```hcl
node {
  policy = "read"
}

namespace "default" {
  policy       = "read"
  capabilities = ["read-job"]
}
```

## Policy Configuration Options - Task Groups

The Nomad APM allows querying Nomad to understand the current resource usage of
a task group.

```hcl
check {
  source = "nomad-apm"
  query  = "avg_cpu"
  # ...
}
```

Querying Nomad task group metrics is be done using the `<operation>_<metric>`
syntax, where valid operations are:

- `avg` - returns the average of the metric value across allocations in the task
  group.

- `min` - returns the lowest metric value among the allocations in the task group.

- `max` - returns the highest metric value among the allocations in the task
  group.

- `sum` - returns the sum of all the metric values for the allocations in the
  task group.

The metric value can be:

- `cpu` - CPU usage as reported by the `nomad.client.allocs.cpu.total_percent`
  metric.

- `memory` - Memory usage as reported by the `nomad.client.allocs.memory.usage`
  metric.

## Policy Configuration Options - Client Nodes

The Nomad APM allows querying Nomad to understand the current allocated resource
as a percentage of the total available.

~> **Note:** When using the Nomad APM plugin for cluster scaling, your policy `target` and
all Nomad clients intended to be targeted by the policy must have a
`node_class` defined. Nodes without `node_class` are evaluated using the
default class value `autoscaler-default-pool`.

```hcl
policy {
  # ...
  check {
    source = "nomad-apm"
    query  = "percentage-allocated_cpu"
    # ...
  }

  target "..." {
    # ...
    node_class = "autoscale"
    # ..
  }
}
```

Querying Nomad client node metrics is be done using the `<operation>_<metric>`
syntax, where valid operations are:

- `percentage-allocated` - returns the allocated percentage of the desired
  resource.

The metric value can be:

- `cpu` - allocated CPU as reported by calculating total allocatable against the
  total allocated by the scheduler.

- `cpu-allocated` - the percentage of CPU used out of the total CPU allocated
  for the allocation.

- `memory` - allocated memory as reported by calculating total allocatable against
  the total allocated by the scheduler.

- `memory-allocated` - the percentage of memory used out of the total memory
  allocated for the allocation.

[nomad_telemetry_block]: /nomad/docs/configuration/telemetry#inlinecode-publish_allocation_metrics

Commit message:

docs: expand docs on the Nomad APM and policy query_window

website/content/tools/autoscaling/plugins/apm/nomad.mdx, after:

---
layout: docs
page_title: 'Autoscaling Plugins: Nomad API'
description: The "nomad-apm" APM plugin queries the Nomad API for metrics.
---

# Nomad APM Plugin

The Nomad APM plugin allows querying the Nomad API for metric data. This provides
an immediate starting point without addition applications but comes at the price
of efficiency and flexibility. When using this APM, it is advised to monitor
Nomad carefully ensuring it is not put under excessive load pressure.

Since Nomad does not store historical metric data and only reports instant
metrics values, the Nomad APM plugin does not support the [`query_window`][]
policy option and is not able to aggregate metrics over time, such as computing
averages or percentiles. An external APM is required to support uses cases like
these.

~> The Nomad APM plugin should only be used when scaling based on CPU and
memory usage. For more advanced scenarios, such as scaling a cluster to
zero clients, you should use a different APM plugin.

## Agent Configuration Options

```hcl
apm "nomad-apm" {
  driver = "nomad-apm"
}
```

When using a Nomad cluster with ACLs enabled, following ACL policy will provide the appropriate
permissions for obtaining task group metrics:

```hcl
namespace "default" {
  policy       = "read"
  capabilities = ["read-job"]
}
```

In order to obtain cluster level metrics, the following ACL policy will be required:

```hcl
node {
  policy = "read"
}

namespace "default" {
  policy       = "read"
  capabilities = ["read-job"]
}
```

## Policy Configuration Options - Task Groups

The Nomad APM allows querying Nomad to understand the current resource usage of
a task group.

```hcl
check {
  source = "nomad-apm"
  query  = "avg_cpu"
  # ...
}
```

Querying Nomad task group metrics is be done using the `<operation>_<metric>`
syntax, where valid operations are:

- `avg` - returns the average of the metric value across allocations in the task
  group.

- `min` - returns the lowest metric value among the allocations in the task group.

- `max` - returns the highest metric value among the allocations in the task
  group.

- `sum` - returns the sum of all the metric values for the allocations in the
  task group.

The metric value can be:

- `cpu` - CPU usage as reported by the `nomad.client.allocs.cpu.total_percent`
  metric.

- `memory` - Memory usage as reported by the `nomad.client.allocs.memory.usage`
  metric.

## Policy Configuration Options - Client Nodes

The Nomad APM allows querying Nomad to understand the current allocated resource
as a percentage of the total available.

~> **Note:** When using the Nomad APM plugin for cluster scaling, your policy `target` and
all Nomad clients intended to be targeted by the policy must have a
`node_class` defined. Nodes without `node_class` are evaluated using the
default class value `autoscaler-default-pool`.

```hcl
policy {
  # ...
  check {
    source = "nomad-apm"
    query  = "percentage-allocated_cpu"
    # ...
  }

  target "..." {
    # ...
    node_class = "autoscale"
    # ..
  }
}
```

Querying Nomad client node metrics is be done using the `<operation>_<metric>`
syntax, where valid operations are:

- `percentage-allocated` - returns the allocated percentage of the desired
  resource.

The metric value can be:

- `cpu` - allocated CPU as reported by calculating total allocatable against the
  total allocated by the scheduler.

- `cpu-allocated` - the percentage of CPU used out of the total CPU allocated
  for the allocation.

- `memory` - allocated memory as reported by calculating total allocatable against
  the total allocated by the scheduler.

- `memory-allocated` - the percentage of memory used out of the total memory
  allocated for the allocation.

[nomad_telemetry_block]: /nomad/docs/configuration/telemetry#inlinecode-publish_allocation_metrics
[`query_window`]: /nomad/tools/autoscaling/policy#query_window
