website/content/docs/concepts/security.mdx, before:

---
layout: docs
page_title: Security Model
description: >-
  Nomad relies on both a lightweight gossip mechanism and an RPC system to
  provide various features. Both of the systems have different security
  mechanisms that stem from their designs. However, the security mechanisms of
  Nomad have a common goal: to provide confidentiality, integrity, and
  authentication.
---

## Overview

Nomad is a flexible workload orchestrator to deploy and manage any containerized
or legacy application using a single, unified workflow. It can run diverse
workloads including Docker, non-containerized, microservice, and batch
applications.

Nomad utilizes a lightweight gossip and RPC system, [similar to
Consul](/consul/docs/security/security-models/core), which provides
various essential features. Both of these systems provide security mechanisms
which should be utilized to help provide [confidentiality, integrity and
authentication](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Information_security).

Using defense in depth is crucial for cluster security, and deployment
requirements may differ drastically depending on your use case. Further security
features for multi-tenant deployments are offered exclusively in the enterprise
version. This documentation may need to be adapted to your deployment situation,
but the general mechanisms for a secure Nomad deployment revolve around:

- **[mTLS](/nomad/tutorials/transport-security/security-enable-tls)** -
  Mutual authentication of both the TLS server and client x509 certificates
  prevents internal abuse by preventing unauthenticated access to network
  components within the cluster.

- **[ACLs](/nomad/tutorials/access-control)** - Enables
  authorization for authenticated connections by granting capabilities to ACL
  tokens.

- **[Namespaces](/nomad/tutorials/manage-clusters/namespaces)** - 
  Access to read and write to a namespace can be
  controlled to allow for granular access to job information managed within a
  multi-tenant cluster.

- **[Sentinel Policies](/nomad/tutorials/governance-and-policy/sentinel)**
  (**Enterprise Only**) - Sentinel policies allow for granular control over
  components such as task drivers within a cluster.

### Personas

When thinking about Nomad, it helps to consider the following types of base
personas when managing the security requirements for the cluster deployment. The
granularity may change depending on your team's use case where rigorous roles
can be accurately defined and managed using the [Nomad backend secret engine for
Vault](/vault/docs/secrets/nomad). This is
described further with getting started steps using a development server
[here](/nomad/tutorials/access-control).

It's important to note that there's no traditional concept of a user
within Nomad itself.

- **System Administrator** - This is someone who has access to the underlying
  infrastructure to a Nomad cluster. Often she has access to SSH or RDP
  directly into a server within a cluster through a bastion host. Ultimately
  they have read, write and execute permissions for the actual Nomad binary.
  This binary is the same for server and client nodes using different
  configuration files. These users potentially have something like sudo,
  administrative, or some other super-user access to the underlying compute
  resource. Users like these are essentially totally trusted by Nomad as they
  have administrative rights to the system and can start or stop the agent.

- **Nomad Administrator** - This is someone (probably the same **System
  Administrator**) who has access to define the Nomad agent configurations
  for servers and clients, and/or have a Nomad management ACL token. They also
  have total rights to all of the parts in the Nomad system including the
  ability to start and stop all jobs within a cluster.

- **Nomad Operator** - This is someone who likely has selective access with
  restricted capabilities to manage jobs applicable to their namespace within
  a cluster.

- **User** - This is someone who is a user of an application being run on the
  system. In some cases applications may be public facing and exposed to the
  internet such as a web server. This is someone who shouldn't have any
  network access to the Nomad server API.

### Secure Configuration

Nomad's security model is applicable only if all parts of the system are running
with a secure configuration; **Nomad is not secure-by-default.** Without the following
mechanisms enabled in Nomad's configuration, it may be possible to abuse access
to a cluster. Like all security considerations, one must appropriately determine
what concerns they have for their environment and adapt to these security
recommendations accordingly.

#### Requirements

- **[mTLS enabled](/nomad/tutorials/transport-security/security-enable-tls)**

  - Mutual TLS (mTLS) enables [mutual
    authentication](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mutual_authentication) with
    security properties to prevent the following problems:

  * Unauthorized access because both server and clients must provide valid TLS
    [X.509](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/X.509) certificates signed by the same
    valid [CA](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Certificate_authority) in order to
    communicate within the cluster.

  * Observing or tampering communication between nodes is thwarted due to the
    traffic being encrypted using the well known network security protocol
    [TLS](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Transport_Layer_Security) version 1.2,
    with a [configurable minimal
    version](/nomad/docs/configuration/tls#tls_min_version).
    Both server and client agents must be configured to validate each other's
    certificates to ensure mTLS is actually enabled. This requires appropriate
    certificates to be distributed to servers, clients, machines, or operators
    for things like CLI usage. It is recommended to use
    [Vault](/nomad/tutorials/integrate-vault/vault-pki-nomad)
    to securely manage the certificate creation and rotation for nodes.

  * Agent role misconfiguration is prevented using the X.509
    [SAN](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Subject_Alternative_Name) extension.
    This is essentially a domain name that is used to identify and verify a
    node's region and role name are configured as expected (e.g.
    `client.us-east.nomad`).

  * Using the previously mentioned role name prevents maliciously masquerading
    as a server or client node, and allows other services to be signed easily by
    the same CA. This also avoids any potential pitfalls with certificates using
    the IP or Hostname of nodes within a cluster.

- **[ACLs enabled](/nomad/tutorials/access-control)** - The
  access control list (ACL) system provides a capability-based control
  mechanism for Nomad administrators allowing for custom roles (typically
  within Vault) to be tied to an individual human or machine operator
  identity. This allows for access to capabilities within the cluster to be
  restricted to specific users.

- **[Namespaces](/nomad/tutorials/manage-clusters/namespaces)**

  - This feature allows for a cluster to be shared by
    multiple teams within a company. Using this logical separation is important
    for multi-tenant clusters to prevent users without access to that namespace
    from conflicting with each other. This requires ACLs to be enabled in order
    to be enforced.

- **[Sentinel Policies](/nomad/tutorials/governance-and-policy/sentinel)**
  (**Enterprise Only**) - [Sentinel](https://www.hashicorp.com/sentinel/) is
  a feature which enables
  [policy-as-code](https://docs.hashicorp.com/sentinel/concepts/policy-as-code)
  to enforce further restrictions on operators. This is used to augment the
  built-in ACL system for fine-grained control over jobs.

- **[Resource Quotas](/nomad/tutorials/governance-and-policy/quotas)**
  (**Enterprise Only**) - Can limit a namespace's access to the underlying
  compute resources in the cluster by setting upper-limits for operators.
  Access to these resource quotas can be managed via ACLs to ensure read-only
  access for operators so they can't just change their quotas.

#### Recommendations

The following are security recommendations that can help significantly improve
the security of your cluster depending on your use case. We recommend always
practicing defense in depth when architecting the security mechanisms for your
environment.

- **Rotate credentials** - Using short-lived credentials or rotating them
  frequently is highly recommended to reduce damage of accidentally leaked
  credentials.

  - Use [Vault](/nomad/docs/integrations/vault-integration) to create and manage
    dynamic, rotated credentials prevent secrets from being easily exposed
    within the [job specification](/nomad/docs/job-specification) itself
    which may be leaked into version control or otherwise be accidentally stored
    on disk on an operator's local machine.

  - Rotate credentials used by the Nomad agent; e.g. [integrate with Vault's
    PKI secret engine](/nomad/tutorials/integrate-vault/vault-pki-nomad) to
    automatically generate and renew dynamic, unique X.509 certificates for each
    Nomad node with a short [TTL](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Time_to_live).

- **[Running without Root](https://groups.google.com/forum/#!topic/nomad-tool/pSyMwC_FSFA)** -
  Nomad servers can be run as unprivileged users that only require access to
  the data directory.

- **Containers with Sandbox Runtimes** - In some situations, such as running
  untrusted code as a service, it may be worth considering using different
  container runtimes such as [gVisor](https://gvisor.dev/) or [Kata
  Containers](https://katacontainers.io/). These types of runtimes provide
  sandboxing features which help prevent raw access to the underlying shared
  kernel for other containers and the Nomad client agent itself. Docker driver
  allows [customizing runtimes](/nomad/docs/drivers/docker#runtime).

- **[Disable Unused Drivers](/nomad/docs/configuration/client#driver-denylist)** -
  Each driver provides different degrees of isolation, and bugs may allow
  unintended privilege escalation. If a task driver is not needed, you can
  disable it to reduce risk.

- **Linux Security Modules** - Use of security modules that can be directly
  integrated into operating systems such as AppArmor, SElinux, and Seccomp on
  both the Nomad hosts and applied to containers for an extra layer of
  security. Seccomp profiles are able to be passed directly to containers
  using the
  **[`security_opt`](/nomad/docs/drivers/docker#security_opt)**
  parameter available in the default [Docker
  driver](/nomad/docs/drivers/docker).

- **[Service Mesh](https://www.hashicorp.com/resources/service-mesh-microservices-networking)** -
  Integrating service mesh technologies such as
  **[Consul](https://www.consul.io/)** can be extremely useful for limiting
  and efficiently load balancing network connectivity within a cluster.

- **[TLS Settings](/nomad/docs/configuration/tls)** -
  TLS settings, such as the available [cipher suites](/nomad/docs/configuration/tls#tls_cipher_suites), should be tuned to fit the needs of your environment.

- **[HTTP Headers](/nomad/docs/configuration#http_api_response_headers)** -
  Additional security [headers](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Headers), such as [`X-XSS-Protection`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Headers/X-XSS-Protection), can be [configured](/nomad/docs/configuration#http_api_response_headers) for HTTP API responses.

### Threat Model

The following are parts of the Nomad threat model:

- **Nomad agent-to-agent communication** - Transport encryption for
  agent-to-agent communication is required to prevent eavesdropping. TCP and
  UDP based protocols within Nomad provide different mechanisms for enabling
  encryption including symmetric (shared gossip encryption keys) and
  asymmetric keys (TLS).

- **Tampering of data in transit** - Any tampering should be detectable via mTLS
  and cause Nomad to avoid processing the request.

- **Access to data without authentication or authorization** - Requests to the
  server should be authenticated and authorized using mTLS and ACLs
  respectively.

- **State modification or corruption due to malicious messages** - Improperly
  formatted messages are discarded while properly formatted messages require
  authentication and authorization.

- **Non-server members accessing raw data** - All servers that join the cluster
  require proper authentication and authorization in order to begin
  participating in Raft. All data in Raft should be encrypted with TLS.

- **Denial of Service against a node** - DoS attacks against a single node
  should not compromise the security posture of Nomad.

The following are not part of the threat model for server agents:

- **Access (read or write) to the Nomad data directory** - Information about the
  jobs managed by Nomad is persisted to a server's data directory.

- **Access (read or write) to the Nomad configuration directory** - Access to
  Nomad's configuration file(s) directory can enable and disable features for
  a cluster.

- **Memory access to a running Nomad server agent** - Direct access to the
  memory of the Nomad server agent process (usually requiring a shell on the
  system through various means) results in almost all aspects of the agent
  being compromised including access to certificates and other secrets.

- **Existence of [Variables] metadata** - Access to Variables List APIs is
  controlled by ACL policies, but the existence of specific paths or metadata is
  not considered sensitive.

The following are not part of the threat model for client agents:

- **Access (read or write) to the Nomad data directory** - Information about the
  allocations scheduled to a Nomad client is persisted to its data directory.
  This would include any secrets in any of the allocation's file systems.

- **Access (read or write) to the Nomad configuration directory** - Access to a
  client's configuration file can enable and disable features for a client
  including insecure drivers such as
  [`raw_exec`](/nomad/docs/drivers/raw_exec).

- **Memory access to a running Nomad client agent** - Direct access to the
  memory of the Nomad client agent process allows an attack to extract secrets
  from clients such as Vault tokens.

- **Lax Client Driver Sandbox** - Drivers may allow some privileged operations,
  e.g. filesystem access to configuration directories, or raw accesses to host
  devices. Such privileges can be used to facilitate compromise other workloads,
  or cause denial-of-service attacks.

#### Internal Threats

- **Job Operator** - Someone with a valid mTLS certificate and ACL token may still be a
  threat to your cluster in certain situations, especially in multi-team
  cluster deployments. They may accidentally or intentionally use a malicious
  job to harm a cluster which can help be protected against using
  Quotas, Namespace, and Sentinel policies.

- **Workload** - Workloads may have host network access within a cluster which
  can lead to SSRF due to application security issues outside of the scope of
  Nomad which may lead to internal access within the cluster. Using mTLS, ACLs
  and Sentinel policies together can add layers of protection against
  malicious workloads.

- **RPC / API Access** - RPC and HTTP API endpoints without mTLS can expose
  clusters to abuse within the cluster from malicious workloads.

- **Client driver** - Drivers implement various workload types for a cluster,
  and the backend configuration of these drivers should be considered to
  implement defense in depth. For example, a custom Docker driver that limits
  the ability to mount the host file system may be subverted by network access
  to an exposed Docker daemon API through other means such as the [`raw_exec`](/nomad/docs/drivers/raw_exec)
  driver.

#### External Threats

There are two main components to consider to for external threats in a Nomad cluster:

- **Server agent** - Internal cluster leader elections and replication is
  managed via Raft between server agents encrypted in transit. However,
  information about the server is stored unencrypted at rest in the agent's
  data directory. This may contain sensitive information such as ACL tokens
  and TLS certificates.

- **Client agent** - Client-to-server communication within a cluster is
  encrypted and authenticated using mTLS. Information about the allocations on
  a client node is unencrypted in the agent's data and configuration
  directory.

### Network Ports

| **Port / Protocol**  | Agents  | Description                                                                                                                                                                         |
| -------------------- | ------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| **4646** / TCP       | All     | [HTTP](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hypertext_Transfer_Protocol) to provide [UI](/nomad/tutorials/web-ui/web-ui-access) and [API](/nomad/api-docs) access to agents. |
| **4647** / TCP       | All     | [RPC](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Remote_procedure_call) protocol used by agents.                                                                                                 |
| **4648** / TCP + UDP | Servers | [gossip](/nomad/docs/concepts/gossip) protocol to manage server membership using [Serf](https://www.serf.io/).                                                                           |


[Variables]: /nomad/docs/concepts/variables

Commit message:

docs: clarify behavior and recommendations for mTLS vs TLS for HTTP
Some of our documentation on `tls` configuration could be more clear as to
whether we're referring to mTLS or TLS. Also, when ACLs are enabled it's fine to
have `verify_https_client=false` (the default). Make it clear that this is an
acceptably secure configuration and that it's in fact recommended in order to
avoid pain of distributing client certs to user browsers.

website/content/docs/concepts/security.mdx, after:

---
layout: docs
page_title: Security Model
description: >-
  Nomad relies on both a lightweight gossip mechanism and an RPC system to
  provide various features. Both of the systems have different security
  mechanisms that stem from their designs. However, the security mechanisms of
  Nomad have a common goal: to provide confidentiality, integrity, and
  authentication.
---

## Overview

Nomad is a flexible workload orchestrator to deploy and manage any containerized
or legacy application using a single, unified workflow. It can run diverse
workloads including Docker, non-containerized, microservice, and batch
applications.

Nomad utilizes a lightweight gossip and RPC system, [similar to
Consul](/consul/docs/security/security-models/core), which provides
various essential features. Both of these systems provide security mechanisms
which should be utilized to help provide [confidentiality, integrity and
authentication](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Information_security).

Using defense in depth is crucial for cluster security, and deployment
requirements may differ drastically depending on your use case. Further security
features for multi-tenant deployments are offered exclusively in the enterprise
version. This documentation may need to be adapted to your deployment situation,
but the general mechanisms for a secure Nomad deployment revolve around:

- **[mTLS](/nomad/tutorials/transport-security/security-enable-tls)** -
  Mutual authentication of both the TLS server and client x509 certificates
  prevents internal abuse by preventing unauthenticated access to network
  components within the cluster.

- **[ACLs](/nomad/tutorials/access-control)** - Enables
  authorization for authenticated connections by granting capabilities to ACL
  tokens.

- **[Namespaces](/nomad/tutorials/manage-clusters/namespaces)** -
  Access to read and write to a namespace can be
  controlled to allow for granular access to job information managed within a
  multi-tenant cluster.

- **[Sentinel Policies](/nomad/tutorials/governance-and-policy/sentinel)**
  (**Enterprise Only**) - Sentinel policies allow for granular control over
  components such as task drivers within a cluster.

### Personas

When thinking about Nomad, it helps to consider the following types of base
personas when managing the security requirements for the cluster deployment. The
granularity may change depending on your team's use case where rigorous roles
can be accurately defined and managed using the [Nomad backend secret engine for
Vault](/vault/docs/secrets/nomad). This is
described further with getting started steps using a development server
[here](/nomad/tutorials/access-control).

It's important to note that there's no traditional concept of a user
within Nomad itself.

- **System Administrator** - This is someone who has access to the underlying
  infrastructure to a Nomad cluster. Often she has access to SSH or RDP
  directly into a server within a cluster through a bastion host. Ultimately
  they have read, write and execute permissions for the actual Nomad binary.
  This binary is the same for server and client nodes using different
  configuration files. These users potentially have something like sudo,
  administrative, or some other super-user access to the underlying compute
  resource. Users like these are essentially totally trusted by Nomad as they
  have administrative rights to the system and can start or stop the agent.

- **Nomad Administrator** - This is someone (probably the same **System
  Administrator**) who has access to define the Nomad agent configurations
  for servers and clients, and/or have a Nomad management ACL token. They also
  have total rights to all of the parts in the Nomad system including the
  ability to start and stop all jobs within a cluster.

- **Nomad Operator** - This is someone who likely has selective access with
  restricted capabilities to manage jobs applicable to their namespace within
  a cluster.

- **User** - This is someone who is a user of an application being run on the
  system. In some cases applications may be public facing and exposed to the
  internet such as a web server. This is someone who shouldn't have any
  network access to the Nomad server API.

### Secure Configuration

Nomad's security model is applicable only if all parts of the system are running
with a secure configuration; **Nomad is not secure-by-default.** Without the following
mechanisms enabled in Nomad's configuration, it may be possible to abuse access
to a cluster. Like all security considerations, one must appropriately determine
what concerns they have for their environment and adapt to these security
recommendations accordingly.

#### Requirements

- **[mTLS enabled](/nomad/tutorials/transport-security/security-enable-tls)**

  - Mutual TLS (mTLS) enables [mutual
    authentication](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mutual_authentication) with
    security properties to prevent the following problems:

  * Unauthorized access because both server and clients must provide valid TLS
    [X.509](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/X.509) certificates signed by the same
    valid [CA](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Certificate_authority) in order to
    communicate within the cluster.

  * Observing or tampering communication between nodes is thwarted due to the
    traffic being encrypted using the well known network security protocol
    [TLS](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Transport_Layer_Security) version 1.2,
    with a [configurable minimal
    version](/nomad/docs/configuration/tls#tls_min_version).
    Both server and client agents must be configured to validate each other's
    certificates to ensure mTLS is actually enabled. This requires appropriate
    certificates to be distributed to servers, clients, machines, or operators
    for things like CLI usage. It is recommended to use
    [Vault](/nomad/tutorials/integrate-vault/vault-pki-nomad)
    to securely manage the certificate creation and rotation for nodes.

  * Agent role misconfiguration is prevented using the X.509
    [SAN](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Subject_Alternative_Name) extension.
    This is essentially a domain name that is used to identify and verify a
    node's region and role name are configured as expected (e.g.
    `client.us-east.nomad`).

  * Using the previously mentioned role name prevents maliciously masquerading
    as a server or client node, and allows other services to be signed easily by
    the same CA. This also avoids any potential pitfalls with certificates using
    the IP or Hostname of nodes within a cluster.

  * Using [`tls.verify_https_client=false`][verify_https_client] downgrades the
    Nomad agent HTTP server to use TLS instead of mTLS. This is safe if ACLs are
    enabled and is recommended if you are using the Nomad web UI to avoid the
    difficulty of distributing client certificates to browsers.

- **[ACLs enabled](/nomad/tutorials/access-control)** - The
  access control list (ACL) system provides a capability-based control
  mechanism for Nomad administrators allowing for custom roles (typically
  within Vault) to be tied to an individual human or machine operator
  identity. This allows for access to capabilities within the cluster to be
  restricted to specific users.

- **[Namespaces](/nomad/tutorials/manage-clusters/namespaces)**

  - This feature allows for a cluster to be shared by
    multiple teams within a company. Using this logical separation is important
    for multi-tenant clusters to prevent users without access to that namespace
    from conflicting with each other. This requires ACLs to be enabled in order
    to be enforced.

- **[Sentinel Policies](/nomad/tutorials/governance-and-policy/sentinel)**
  (**Enterprise Only**) - [Sentinel](https://www.hashicorp.com/sentinel/) is
  a feature which enables
  [policy-as-code](https://docs.hashicorp.com/sentinel/concepts/policy-as-code)
  to enforce further restrictions on operators. This is used to augment the
  built-in ACL system for fine-grained control over jobs.

- **[Resource Quotas](/nomad/tutorials/governance-and-policy/quotas)**
  (**Enterprise Only**) - Can limit a namespace's access to the underlying
  compute resources in the cluster by setting upper-limits for operators.
  Access to these resource quotas can be managed via ACLs to ensure read-only
  access for operators so they can't just change their quotas.

#### Recommendations

The following are security recommendations that can help significantly improve
the security of your cluster depending on your use case. We recommend always
practicing defense in depth when architecting the security mechanisms for your
environment.

- **Rotate credentials** - Using short-lived credentials or rotating them
  frequently is highly recommended to reduce damage of accidentally leaked
  credentials.

  - Use [Vault](/nomad/docs/integrations/vault-integration) to create and manage
    dynamic, rotated credentials prevent secrets from being easily exposed
    within the [job specification](/nomad/docs/job-specification) itself
    which may be leaked into version control or otherwise be accidentally stored
    on disk on an operator's local machine.

  - Rotate credentials used by the Nomad agent; e.g. [integrate with Vault's
    PKI secret engine](/nomad/tutorials/integrate-vault/vault-pki-nomad) to
    automatically generate and renew dynamic, unique X.509 certificates for each
    Nomad node with a short [TTL](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Time_to_live).

- **[Running without Root](https://groups.google.com/forum/#!topic/nomad-tool/pSyMwC_FSFA)** -
  Nomad servers can be run as unprivileged users that only require access to
  the data directory.

- **Containers with Sandbox Runtimes** - In some situations, such as running
  untrusted code as a service, it may be worth considering using different
  container runtimes such as [gVisor](https://gvisor.dev/) or [Kata
  Containers](https://katacontainers.io/). These types of runtimes provide
  sandboxing features which help prevent raw access to the underlying shared
  kernel for other containers and the Nomad client agent itself. Docker driver
  allows [customizing runtimes](/nomad/docs/drivers/docker#runtime).

- **[Disable Unused Drivers](/nomad/docs/configuration/client#driver-denylist)** -
  Each driver provides different degrees of isolation, and bugs may allow
  unintended privilege escalation. If a task driver is not needed, you can
  disable it to reduce risk.

- **Linux Security Modules** - Use of security modules that can be directly
  integrated into operating systems such as AppArmor, SElinux, and Seccomp on
  both the Nomad hosts and applied to containers for an extra layer of
  security. Seccomp profiles are able to be passed directly to containers
  using the
  **[`security_opt`](/nomad/docs/drivers/docker#security_opt)**
  parameter available in the default [Docker
  driver](/nomad/docs/drivers/docker).

- **[Service Mesh](https://www.hashicorp.com/resources/service-mesh-microservices-networking)** -
  Integrating service mesh technologies such as
  **[Consul](https://www.consul.io/)** can be extremely useful for limiting
  and efficiently load balancing network connectivity within a cluster.

- **[TLS Settings](/nomad/docs/configuration/tls)** -
  TLS settings, such as the available [cipher suites](/nomad/docs/configuration/tls#tls_cipher_suites), should be tuned to fit the needs of your environment.

- **[HTTP Headers](/nomad/docs/configuration#http_api_response_headers)** -
  Additional security [headers](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Headers), such as [`X-XSS-Protection`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Headers/X-XSS-Protection), can be [configured](/nomad/docs/configuration#http_api_response_headers) for HTTP API responses.

### Threat Model

The following are parts of the Nomad threat model:

- **Nomad agent-to-agent communication** - Transport encryption for
  agent-to-agent communication is required to prevent eavesdropping. TCP and
  UDP based protocols within Nomad provide different mechanisms for enabling
  encryption including symmetric (shared gossip encryption keys) and
  asymmetric keys (TLS).

- **Tampering of data in transit** - Any tampering should be detectable via mTLS
  and cause Nomad to avoid processing the request.

- **Access to data without authentication or authorization** - Requests to the
  server should be authenticated and authorized using mTLS and ACLs
  respectively.

- **State modification or corruption due to malicious messages** - Improperly
  formatted messages are discarded while properly formatted messages require
  authentication and authorization.

- **Non-server members accessing raw data** - All servers that join the cluster
  require proper authentication and authorization in order to begin
  participating in Raft. All data in Raft should be encrypted with TLS.

- **Denial of Service against a node** - DoS attacks against a single node
  should not compromise the security posture of Nomad.

The following are not part of the threat model for server agents:

- **Access (read or write) to the Nomad data directory** - Information about the
  jobs managed by Nomad is persisted to a server's data directory.

- **Access (read or write) to the Nomad configuration directory** - Access to
  Nomad's configuration file(s) directory can enable and disable features for
  a cluster.

- **Memory access to a running Nomad server agent** - Direct access to the
  memory of the Nomad server agent process (usually requiring a shell on the
  system through various means) results in almost all aspects of the agent
  being compromised including access to certificates and other secrets.

- **Existence of [Variables] metadata** - Access to Variables List APIs is
  controlled by ACL policies, but the existence of specific paths or metadata is
  not considered sensitive.

The following are not part of the threat model for client agents:

- **Access (read or write) to the Nomad data directory** - Information about the
  allocations scheduled to a Nomad client is persisted to its data directory.
  This would include any secrets in any of the allocation's file systems.

- **Access (read or write) to the Nomad configuration directory** - Access to a
  client's configuration file can enable and disable features for a client
  including insecure drivers such as
  [`raw_exec`](/nomad/docs/drivers/raw_exec).

- **Memory access to a running Nomad client agent** - Direct access to the
  memory of the Nomad client agent process allows an attack to extract secrets
  from clients such as Vault tokens.

- **Lax Client Driver Sandbox** - Drivers may allow some privileged operations,
  e.g. filesystem access to configuration directories, or raw accesses to host
  devices. Such privileges can be used to facilitate compromise other workloads,
  or cause denial-of-service attacks.

#### Internal Threats

- **Job Operator** - Someone with a valid mTLS certificate and ACL token may still be a
  threat to your cluster in certain situations, especially in multi-team
  cluster deployments. They may accidentally or intentionally use a malicious
  job to harm a cluster which can help be protected against using
  Quotas, Namespace, and Sentinel policies.

- **Workload** - Workloads may have host network access within a cluster which
  can lead to SSRF due to application security issues outside of the scope of
  Nomad which may lead to internal access within the cluster. Using mTLS, ACLs
  and Sentinel policies together can add layers of protection against
  malicious workloads.

- **RPC / API Access** - RPC and HTTP API endpoints without mTLS can expose
  clusters to abuse within the cluster from malicious workloads.

- **Client driver** - Drivers implement various workload types for a cluster,
  and the backend configuration of these drivers should be considered to
  implement defense in depth. For example, a custom Docker driver that limits
  the ability to mount the host file system may be subverted by network access
  to an exposed Docker daemon API through other means such as the [`raw_exec`](/nomad/docs/drivers/raw_exec)
  driver.

#### External Threats

There are two main components to consider to for external threats in a Nomad cluster:

- **Server agent** - Internal cluster leader elections and replication is
  managed via Raft between server agents encrypted in transit. However,
  information about the server is stored unencrypted at rest in the agent's
  data directory. This may contain sensitive information such as ACL tokens
  and TLS certificates.

- **Client agent** - Client-to-server communication within a cluster is
  encrypted and authenticated using mTLS. Information about the allocations on
  a client node is unencrypted in the agent's data and configuration
  directory.

### Network Ports

| **Port / Protocol**  | Agents  | Description                                                                                                                                                                         |
| -------------------- | ------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| **4646** / TCP       | All     | [HTTP](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hypertext_Transfer_Protocol) to provide [UI](/nomad/tutorials/web-ui/web-ui-access) and [API](/nomad/api-docs) access to agents. |
| **4647** / TCP       | All     | [RPC](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Remote_procedure_call) protocol used by agents.                                                                                                 |
| **4648** / TCP + UDP | Servers | [gossip](/nomad/docs/concepts/gossip) protocol to manage server membership using [Serf](https://www.serf.io/).                                                                           |


[Variables]: /nomad/docs/concepts/variables
[verify_https_client]: /nomad/docs/configuration/tls#verify_https_client
