website/content/docs/configuration/acl.mdx, before:

---
layout: docs
page_title: acl Block - Agent Configuration
description: >-
  The "acl" block configures the Nomad agent to enable ACLs and tune various
  parameters.
---

# `acl` Block

<Placement groups={['acl']} />

The `acl` block configures the Nomad agent to enable ACLs and tunes various
ACL parameters. Learn more about configuring Nomad's ACL system in the [Secure
Nomad with Access Control guide][secure-guide].

```hcl
acl {
  enabled    = true
  token_ttl  = "30s"
  policy_ttl = "60s"
  role_ttl   = "60s"
}
```

## `acl` Parameters

- `enabled` `(bool: false)` - Specifies if ACL enforcement is enabled. All other
  ACL configuration options depend on this value. All agents should have the
  same value for this parameter. For example the Nomad command line will
  send requests for client endpoints such as `alloc exec` directly to Nomad
  clients whenever they are accessible. In this scenario, the client will
  enforce ACLs, so both servers and clients should have ACLs enabled.

- `token_ttl` `(string: "30s")` - Specifies the maximum time-to-live (TTL) for
  cached ACL tokens. This does not affect servers, since they do not cache tokens.
  Setting this value lower reduces how stale a token can be, but increases
  the request load against servers. If a client cannot reach a server, for example
  because of an outage, the TTL will be ignored and the cached value used.

- `policy_ttl` `(string: "30s")` - Specifies the maximum time-to-live (TTL) for
  cached ACL policies. This does not affect servers, since they do not cache policies.
  Setting this value lower reduces how stale a policy can be, but increases
  the request load against servers. If a client cannot reach a server, for example
  because of an outage, the TTL will be ignored and the cached value used.

- `role_ttl` `(string: "30s")` - Specifies the maximum time-to-live (TTL) for
  cached ACL roles. This does not affect servers, since they do not cache roles.
  Setting this value lower reduces how stale a role can be, but increases the
  request load against servers. If a client cannot reach a server, for example
  because of an outage, the TTL will be ignored and the cached value used.

- `replication_token` `(string: "")` - Specifies the Secret ID of the ACL token
  to use for replicating policies and tokens. This is used by servers in non-authoritative
  region to mirror the policies and tokens into the local region from [authoritative_region][authoritative-region].

- `token_min_expiration_ttl` `(string: "1m")` - Specifies the lowest acceptable
  TTL value for an ACL token when setting expiration. This is used by the Nomad
  servers to validate ACL tokens.

- `token_max_expiration_ttl` `(string: "24h")` - Specifies the highest acceptable
  TTL value for an ACL token when setting expiration. This is used by the Nomad
  servers to validate ACL tokens.

[secure-guide]: /nomad/tutorials/access-control
[authoritative-region]: /nomad/docs/configuration/server#authoritative_region

Commit message:

docs: clarify ACL agent config TTL params apply to auth methods. (#18949)

website/content/docs/configuration/acl.mdx, after:

---
layout: docs
page_title: acl Block - Agent Configuration
description: >-
  The "acl" block configures the Nomad agent to enable ACLs and tune various
  parameters.
---

# `acl` Block

<Placement groups={['acl']} />

The `acl` block configures the Nomad agent to enable ACLs and tunes various
ACL parameters. Learn more about configuring Nomad's ACL system in the [Secure
Nomad with Access Control guide][secure-guide].

```hcl
acl {
  enabled    = true
  token_ttl  = "30s"
  policy_ttl = "60s"
  role_ttl   = "60s"
}
```

## `acl` Parameters

- `enabled` `(bool: false)` - Specifies if ACL enforcement is enabled. All other
  ACL configuration options depend on this value. All agents should have the
  same value for this parameter. For example the Nomad command line will
  send requests for client endpoints such as `alloc exec` directly to Nomad
  clients whenever they are accessible. In this scenario, the client will
  enforce ACLs, so both servers and clients should have ACLs enabled.

- `token_ttl` `(string: "30s")` - Specifies the maximum time-to-live (TTL) for
  cached ACL tokens. This does not affect servers, since they do not cache tokens.
  Setting this value lower reduces how stale a token can be, but increases
  the request load against servers. If a client cannot reach a server, for example
  because of an outage, the TTL will be ignored and the cached value used.

- `policy_ttl` `(string: "30s")` - Specifies the maximum time-to-live (TTL) for
  cached ACL policies. This does not affect servers, since they do not cache policies.
  Setting this value lower reduces how stale a policy can be, but increases
  the request load against servers. If a client cannot reach a server, for example
  because of an outage, the TTL will be ignored and the cached value used.

- `role_ttl` `(string: "30s")` - Specifies the maximum time-to-live (TTL) for
  cached ACL roles. This does not affect servers, since they do not cache roles.
  Setting this value lower reduces how stale a role can be, but increases the
  request load against servers. If a client cannot reach a server, for example
  because of an outage, the TTL will be ignored and the cached value used.

- `replication_token` `(string: "")` - Specifies the Secret ID of the ACL token
  to use for replicating policies and tokens. This is used by servers in non-authoritative
  region to mirror the policies and tokens into the local region from [authoritative_region][authoritative-region].

- `token_min_expiration_ttl` `(string: "1m")` - Specifies the lowest acceptable
  TTL value for an ACL token when setting expiration. This is used by the Nomad
  servers to validate ACL tokens and ACL authentication methods.

- `token_max_expiration_ttl` `(string: "24h")` - Specifies the highest acceptable
  TTL value for an ACL token when setting expiration. This is used by the Nomad
  servers to validate ACL tokens and ACL authentication methods.

[secure-guide]: /nomad/tutorials/access-control
[authoritative-region]: /nomad/docs/configuration/server#authoritative_region
