website/content/docs/configuration/telemetry.mdx, before:

---
layout: docs
page_title: telemetry Block - Agent Configuration
description: |-
  The "telemetry" block configures Nomad's publication of metrics and telemetry
  to third-party systems.
---

# `telemetry` Block

<Placement groups={['telemetry']} />

The `telemetry` block configures Nomad's publication of metrics and telemetry
to third-party systems.

```hcl
telemetry {
  publish_allocation_metrics = true
  publish_node_metrics       = true
}
```

This section of the documentation only covers the configuration options for
`telemetry` block. To understand the architecture and metrics themselves,
please see the [Telemetry guide](/nomad/docs/operations/monitoring-nomad).

## `telemetry` Parameters

Due to the number of configurable parameters to the `telemetry` block,
parameters on this page are grouped by the telemetry provider.

### Common

The following options are available on all telemetry configurations.

- `disable_hostname` `(bool: false)` - Specifies if gauge values should be
  prefixed with the local hostname.

- `collection_interval` `(duration: 1s)` - Specifies the time interval at which
  the Nomad agent collects telemetry data.

- `use_node_name` `(bool: false)` - Specifies if gauge values should be
  prefixed with the name of the node, instead of the hostname. If set it will
  override [disable_hostname](#disable_hostname) value.

- `publish_allocation_metrics` `(bool: false)` - Specifies if Nomad should
  publish runtime metrics of allocations.

- `publish_node_metrics` `(bool: false)` - Specifies if Nomad should publish
  runtime metrics of nodes.

- `filter_default` `(bool: true)` - This controls whether to allow metrics that
  have not been specified by the filter. Defaults to true, which will allow all
  metrics when no filters are provided. When set to false with no filters, no
  metrics will be sent.

- `prefix_filter` `(list: [])` - This is a list of filter rules to apply for
  allowing/blocking metrics by prefix. A leading "<b>+</b>" will enable any
  metrics with the given prefix, and a leading "<b>-</b>" will block them. If
  there is overlap between two rules, the more specific rule will take
  precedence. Blocking will take priority if the same prefix is listed multiple
  times.

```python
['-nomad.raft', '+nomad.raft.apply', '-nomad.memberlist']
```

- `disable_dispatched_job_summary_metrics` `(bool: false)` - Specifies if Nomad
  should ignore jobs dispatched from a parameterized job when publishing job
  summary statistics. Since each job has a small memory overhead for tracking
  summary statistics, it is sometimes desired to trade these statistics for
  more memory when dispatching high volumes of jobs.

### `statsite`

These `telemetry` parameters apply to
[statsite](https://github.com/armon/statsite).

- `statsite_address` `(string: "")` - Specifies the address of a statsite server
  to forward metrics data to.

```hcl
telemetry {
  statsite_address = "statsite.company.local:8125"
}
```

### `statsd`

These `telemetry` parameters apply to
[statsd](https://github.com/etsy/statsd).

- `statsd_address` `(string: "")` - Specifies the address of a statsd server to
  forward metrics to.

```hcl
telemetry {
  statsd_address = "statsd.company.local:8125"
}
```

### `datadog`

These `telemetry` parameters apply to
[DataDog statsd](https://github.com/DataDog/datadog-agent).

- `datadog_address` `(string: "")` - Specifies the address of a DataDog statsd
  server to forward metrics to.

- `datadog_tags` `(list: [])` - Specifies a list of global tags that will be
  added to all telemetry packets sent to DogStatsD. It is a list of strings,
  where each string looks like "my_tag_name:my_tag_value".

```hcl
telemetry {
  datadog_address = "dogstatsd.company.local:8125"
  datadog_tags    = ["my_tag_name:my_tag_value"]
}
```

### `prometheus`

These `telemetry` parameters apply to [Prometheus](https://prometheus.io).

- `prometheus_metrics` `(bool: false)` - Specifies whether the agent should
  make Prometheus formatted metrics available at `/v1/metrics?format=prometheus`.

### `circonus`

These `telemetry` parameters apply to
[Circonus](http://circonus.com/).

- `circonus_api_token` `(string: "")` - Specifies a valid Circonus API Token
  used to create/manage check. If provided, metric management is enabled.

- `circonus_api_app` `(string: "nomad")` - Specifies a valid app name associated
  with the API token.

- `circonus_api_url` `(string: "https://api.circonus.com/v2")` - Specifies the
  base URL to use for contacting the Circonus API.

- `circonus_submission_interval` `(string: "10s")` - Specifies the interval at
  which metrics are submitted to Circonus.

- `circonus_submission_url` `(string: "")` - Specifies the
  `check.config.submission_url` field, of a Check API object, from a previously
  created HTTPTRAP check.

- `circonus_check_id` `(string: "")` - Specifies the Check ID (**not check
  bundle**) from a previously created HTTPTRAP check. The numeric portion of the
  `check._cid` field in the Check API object.

- `circonus_check_force_metric_activation` `(bool: false)` - Specifies if force
  activation of metrics which already exist and are not currently active. If
  check management is enabled, the default behavior is to add new metrics as
  they are encountered. If the metric already exists in the check, it will
  not be activated. This setting overrides that behavior.

- `circonus_check_instance_id` `(string: "<hostname>:<application>")` - Serves
  to uniquely identify the metrics coming from this _instance_. It can be used
  to maintain metric continuity with transient or ephemeral instances as they
  move around within an infrastructure. By default, this is set to
  hostname:application name (e.g. "host123:nomad").

- `circonus_check_search_tag` `(string: <service>:<application>)` - Specifies a
  special tag which, when coupled with the instance id, helps to narrow down the
  search results when neither a Submission URL or Check ID is provided. By
  default, this is set to service:app (e.g. "service:nomad").

- `circonus_check_display_name` `(string: "")` - Specifies a name to give a
  check when it is created. This name is displayed in the Circonus UI Checks
  list.

- `circonus_check_tags` `(string: "")` - Comma separated list of additional
  tags to add to a check when it is created.

- `circonus_broker_id` `(string: "")` - Specifies the ID of a specific Circonus
  Broker to use when creating a new check. The numeric portion of `broker._cid`
  field in a Broker API object. If metric management is enabled and neither a
  Submission URL nor Check ID is provided, an attempt will be made to search for
  an existing check using Instance ID and Search Tag. If one is not found, a new
  HTTPTRAP check will be created. By default, this is a random
  Enterprise Broker is selected, or, the default Circonus Public Broker.

- `circonus_broker_select_tag` `(string: "")` - Specifies a special tag which
  will be used to select a Circonus Broker when a Broker ID is not provided. The
  best use of this is to as a hint for which broker should be used based on
  _where_ this particular instance is running (e.g. a specific geographic location or
  datacenter, dc:sfo).

Commit message:

docs: make recommendation for collection interval vs scrape interval
Metrics tools that "pull" metrics, such as Prometheus, have a configurable
interval for how frequently they scrape metrics. This should be greater or equal
to the Nomad `telemetry.collection_interval` to avoid re-scraping metrics that
cannot have been updated in that interval.

Fixes: https://github.com/hashicorp/nomad/issues/20055

website/content/docs/configuration/telemetry.mdx, after:

---
layout: docs
page_title: telemetry Block - Agent Configuration
description: |-
  The "telemetry" block configures Nomad's publication of metrics and telemetry
  to third-party systems.
---

# `telemetry` Block

<Placement groups={['telemetry']} />

The `telemetry` block configures Nomad's publication of metrics and telemetry
to third-party systems.

```hcl
telemetry {
  publish_allocation_metrics = true
  publish_node_metrics       = true
}
```

This section of the documentation only covers the configuration options for
`telemetry` block. To understand the architecture and metrics themselves,
please see the [Telemetry guide](/nomad/docs/operations/monitoring-nomad).

## `telemetry` Parameters

Due to the number of configurable parameters to the `telemetry` block,
parameters on this page are grouped by the telemetry provider.

### Common

The following options are available on all telemetry configurations.

- `disable_hostname` `(bool: false)` - Specifies if gauge values should be
  prefixed with the local hostname.

- `collection_interval` `(duration: 1s)` - Specifies the time interval at which
  the Nomad agent collects telemetry data. For metrics tools that scrape metrics
  (for example, Prometheus), you should ensure this value is less than or equal
  to the value of any scrape interval.

- `use_node_name` `(bool: false)` - Specifies if gauge values should be
  prefixed with the name of the node, instead of the hostname. If set it will
  override [disable_hostname](#disable_hostname) value.

- `publish_allocation_metrics` `(bool: false)` - Specifies if Nomad should
  publish runtime metrics of allocations.

- `publish_node_metrics` `(bool: false)` - Specifies if Nomad should publish
  runtime metrics of nodes.

- `filter_default` `(bool: true)` - This controls whether to allow metrics that
  have not been specified by the filter. Defaults to true, which will allow all
  metrics when no filters are provided. When set to false with no filters, no
  metrics will be sent.

- `prefix_filter` `(list: [])` - This is a list of filter rules to apply for
  allowing/blocking metrics by prefix. A leading "<b>+</b>" will enable any
  metrics with the given prefix, and a leading "<b>-</b>" will block them. If
  there is overlap between two rules, the more specific rule will take
  precedence. Blocking will take priority if the same prefix is listed multiple
  times.

```python
['-nomad.raft', '+nomad.raft.apply', '-nomad.memberlist']
```

- `disable_dispatched_job_summary_metrics` `(bool: false)` - Specifies if Nomad
  should ignore jobs dispatched from a parameterized job when publishing job
  summary statistics. Since each job has a small memory overhead for tracking
  summary statistics, it is sometimes desired to trade these statistics for
  more memory when dispatching high volumes of jobs.

### `statsite`

These `telemetry` parameters apply to
[statsite](https://github.com/armon/statsite).

- `statsite_address` `(string: "")` - Specifies the address of a statsite server
  to forward metrics data to.

```hcl
telemetry {
  statsite_address = "statsite.company.local:8125"
}
```

### `statsd`

These `telemetry` parameters apply to
[statsd](https://github.com/etsy/statsd).

- `statsd_address` `(string: "")` - Specifies the address of a statsd server to
  forward metrics to.

```hcl
telemetry {
  statsd_address = "statsd.company.local:8125"
}
```

### `datadog`

These `telemetry` parameters apply to
[DataDog statsd](https://github.com/DataDog/datadog-agent).

- `datadog_address` `(string: "")` - Specifies the address of a DataDog statsd
  server to forward metrics to.

- `datadog_tags` `(list: [])` - Specifies a list of global tags that will be
  added to all telemetry packets sent to DogStatsD. It is a list of strings,
  where each string looks like "my_tag_name:my_tag_value".

```hcl
telemetry {
  datadog_address = "dogstatsd.company.local:8125"
  datadog_tags    = ["my_tag_name:my_tag_value"]
}
```

### `prometheus`

These `telemetry` parameters apply to [Prometheus](https://prometheus.io).

- `prometheus_metrics` `(bool: false)` - Specifies whether the agent should
  make Prometheus formatted metrics available at `/v1/metrics?format=prometheus`.

### `circonus`

These `telemetry` parameters apply to
[Circonus](http://circonus.com/).

- `circonus_api_token` `(string: "")` - Specifies a valid Circonus API Token
  used to create/manage check. If provided, metric management is enabled.

- `circonus_api_app` `(string: "nomad")` - Specifies a valid app name associated
  with the API token.

- `circonus_api_url` `(string: "https://api.circonus.com/v2")` - Specifies the
  base URL to use for contacting the Circonus API.

- `circonus_submission_interval` `(string: "10s")` - Specifies the interval at
  which metrics are submitted to Circonus.

- `circonus_submission_url` `(string: "")` - Specifies the
  `check.config.submission_url` field, of a Check API object, from a previously
  created HTTPTRAP check.

- `circonus_check_id` `(string: "")` - Specifies the Check ID (**not check
  bundle**) from a previously created HTTPTRAP check. The numeric portion of the
  `check._cid` field in the Check API object.

- `circonus_check_force_metric_activation` `(bool: false)` - Specifies if force
  activation of metrics which already exist and are not currently active. If
  check management is enabled, the default behavior is to add new metrics as
  they are encountered. If the metric already exists in the check, it will
  not be activated. This setting overrides that behavior.

- `circonus_check_instance_id` `(string: "<hostname>:<application>")` - Serves
  to uniquely identify the metrics coming from this _instance_. It can be used
  to maintain metric continuity with transient or ephemeral instances as they
  move around within an infrastructure. By default, this is set to
  hostname:application name (e.g. "host123:nomad").

- `circonus_check_search_tag` `(string: <service>:<application>)` - Specifies a
  special tag which, when coupled with the instance id, helps to narrow down the
  search results when neither a Submission URL or Check ID is provided. By
  default, this is set to service:app (e.g. "service:nomad").

- `circonus_check_display_name` `(string: "")` - Specifies a name to give a
  check when it is created. This name is displayed in the Circonus UI Checks
  list.

- `circonus_check_tags` `(string: "")` - Comma separated list of additional
  tags to add to a check when it is created.

- `circonus_broker_id` `(string: "")` - Specifies the ID of a specific Circonus
  Broker to use when creating a new check. The numeric portion of `broker._cid`
  field in a Broker API object. If metric management is enabled and neither a
  Submission URL nor Check ID is provided, an attempt will be made to search for
  an existing check using Instance ID and Search Tag. If one is not found, a new
  HTTPTRAP check will be created. By default, this is a random
  Enterprise Broker is selected, or, the default Circonus Public Broker.

- `circonus_broker_select_tag` `(string: "")` - Specifies a special tag which
  will be used to select a Circonus Broker when a Broker ID is not provided. The
  best use of this is to as a hint for which broker should be used based on
  _where_ this particular instance is running (e.g. a specific geographic location or
  datacenter, dc:sfo).
